
    
      Renal transplantation is widely recognized as the treatment of choice for children with
      end-stage renal disease (ESRD). Although outcomes of renal transplantation in children have
      improved during the past decade, success has been limited by both non-specific tolerance and
      the complications associated with immunosuppressants. Steroids and calcineurin inhibitors
      have the most toxic side effects. Use of sirolimus for immunosuppression has not been
      associated with as many complications. Recent studies from Europe have demonstrated that
      sirolimus can be combined with MMF and steroids to provide excellent graft survival in the
      absence of calcineurin inhibitors. Steroid side-effects can be lessened by tapering the
      steroid dose to an every-other-day schedule. This protocol tests whether immunosuppression by
      IL-2r antibody, sirolimus, MMF, and alternate-day steroids will provide comparable graft
      survival for living donor recipients, compared to current immunosuppression, but with reduced
      complications of calcineurin inhibitors.

      Evaluations prior to transplantation include a complete history and physical examination,
      CBC, liver function tests, and antibodies for CMV, EBV, HIV, HbsAG, and HCV. All appropriate
      vaccinations are provided before transplantation. Transplant recipients receive
      immunosuppression therapy using antibody induction (daclizumab), corticosteroids,
      mycophenolate mofetil, and sirolimus. Serum sirolimus levels are measured so that doses can
      be adjusted to maintain certain blood levels of the drug. Bactrim and ganciclovir are given
      for infection prophylaxis. If the patient has consistent high levels of fasting cholesterol,
      treatment with lipitor may be given. A transplant biopsy is performed at the time of the
      transplant and at 3, 6, and 12 months post transplantation and at times when a rejection is
      suspected. A radionuclide GFR is done at the same time points, and at 1, 24, and 36 months.
      The protocol biopsies, blood, and urine samples will be analyzed by genomic methods to
      determine differences in gene expression post transplantation. In the event of a first acute
      rejection, patients are treated with Solu-Medrol for 3 consecutive days. A second rejection
      (at the discretion of the transplant center) or severe rejection (Banff Grade 3) is treated
      with antibody therapy and, after a second or severe rejection, the immunosuppressant regimen
      is changed. Patients are followed for 36 months with routine physical examinations and
      laboratory assessments.
    
  