
    
      Rationale - current state of knowledge Current guidelines for cT2-T3 (clinical stage T2 and
      T3) low and middle rectal cancer recommend radical total mesorectal excision (TME) surgery
      that may involves permanent stoma or a low anterior resection with sometimes poor bowel
      function.

      Randomised trials have shown that neoadjuvant (chemo)radiotherapy (nCRT) reduces the risk of
      local recurrence by more than half. At 3 years, it is close to or below 5% with acceptable
      toxicity at many centers. On the other hand, it provides no definite improvement in overall
      survival and does not increase the chances of conservative surgery.

      Rectal adenocarcinoma is rather radioresistant and the dose required to achieve 50%
      sterilization is close to 90 grays (Gy), which is a high dose causing toxicities when given
      with external beam radiation therapy (EBRT). Among the radiotherapy techniques able to
      achieve safely such a high dose, Contact X-Ray Brachytherapy 50 Kv (CXB) is an appealing
      method.

      The Lyon R96-2 randomised trial using CXB showed an increased clinical complete response
      (cCR) rate from 2% to 29% and an improvement by 30% the chance of avoiding a permanent stoma
      (72% vs. 42%). In addition, some patients achieving cCR were able to preserve not only the
      sphincter but the whole rectum (organ preservation) either after local excision or using only
      a "watch and wait" strategy.

      Such a conservative approach is receiving a growing interest all over the world among
      colorectal cancer specialists. The extensive and pioneering work of Prof. Habr Gama in Brazil
      is presently considered as a reference for the use chemoradiotherapy and an EBRT boost (total
      dose 54 Gy/30 f/6 weeks) followed by watch and wait in case of cCR to preserve organ, i.E. to
      avoid surgery.

      Research Hypothesis The investigators propose to conduct a randomised study on cT2, cT3a-b
      tumours less than 5 cm using two different techniques of radiotherapy boost following
      neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy (nCRT) (CAP45): EBRT (9 Gy/5 fractions) or CXB (90 Gy/3
      fractions). The endpoint will be organ preservation at 3 years without non-salvageable local
      pelvic recurrence. The proof of this concept will be of most benefit for all patients but
      especially for the elderly who usually are not fit for or keen to undergo major surgery.

      The hypothesis of this study is to determine whether the addition of an endocavitary boost
      with CXB after standard treatment with nCRT, increases the chance of rectum and anus
      preservation by 20%-unites in early rectal adenocarcinoma without locally progressive disease
      (organ preservation in control arm 20%, in experimental arm 40%).

      Main objective To demonstrate that neoadjuvant chemoradiotherapy in combination with a boost
      given with CXB (Arm B) is superior to the same neoadjuvant therapy plus a boost with EBRT
      alone (Arm A) in terms of rectum (organ) preservation without non salvageable local disease
      at 3 years post treatment start, or permanent deviating stoma.

      Study Design Open-label, phase III, prospective, multi-centre, international, randomised 1:1,
      2 arm study designed to evaluate the efficacy of a CXB boost versus an EBRT boost.

      Randomisation:

      Arm A: 3D conformal EBRT 45 Gy (1.8 Gy/fraction/5 weeks) with concurrent chemotherapy using
      capecitabine (825 mg/m2 bid, on radiation days).

      A cone down EBRT targeting the Gross Tumour Volume (GTV) will deliver a boost dose of 9 Gy in
      5 fractions. On week 14 after the start of treatment, the tumour response evaluation will
      guide the final strategy: surgery (radical TME or local excision) or watch-and-wait (W-W).

      Arm B divided in 2 subgroups depending on the tumour diameter:

      B1: If the tumour is < 3 cm, a CXB boost dose (90Gy/3 fractions/4 weeks) will be initially
      delivered to the tumour. After 2 weeks rest, patients will receive 3D conformal EBRT 45 Gy
      (1.8 Gy/fraction/5 weeks) with concurrent chemotherapy using capecitabine (825 mg/m2 bid, on
      radiation days). Clinical evaluation will be performed 3 weeks after the end of irradiation
      (week 14) and will guide the final strategy (surgery or W-W) as in arm A.

      B2: If the tumour is ≥ 3 cm, patients will receive EBRT first 45 Gy (1.8 Gy/fraction/5 weeks)
      with concurrent chemotherapy using capecitabine (825 mg/m2 bid, on radiation days).

      A CXB boost dose (90 Gy/3 fractions/4 weeks) will be delivered to residual tumour, after a
      rest of 2 weeks. On week 14 after the start of treatment, the tumour response evaluation will
      guide the final strategy (surgery or W-W) as in arm A. Adjuvant chemotherapy will be left to
      institution choice.

      Number of subjects: Taking alpha=5% and bêta=7.5% with 10% patients not evaluable after
      randomisation, 236 patients (118 patients/arm) must be enrolled to show a 50% increase in the
      main endpoint at 3 years (from 20% to 40%).This study will show a hazard ratio of 0.56.
      Stopping rule: non-salvageable local recurrence rate > 10% checked by the independent Data
      Monitoring Committee every 80 patients.
    
  