
    
      Earlier research at the Faculty of Economics and Business (FEB) has demonstrated
      generalization of reward sensitivity after sensory stimulation in a different domain. As
      increased sensory stimulation in the sexual domain (Van den Bergh et al. 2008) or the power
      domain (Briers et al. 2007), the preference for immediate small financial reward increased
      deferred pay. Hongda, DeWitte & Warlop (2008) were able to neutralize this effect by
      domain-specific financial satiation. In this research, The investigators investigate the
      possible influence of (subliminal) intragastric administration of fatty acids in reward
      sensitivity in the power domain, and whether this effect generalizes to financial and sexual
      domain. Previous research at the Translational Research Center for Gastrointestinal Disorders
      (TARGID) showed that such administration can neutralize the effects of mood-priming (Van
      Oudenhove et al., 2011). This study aims to examine the implications of those findings in the
      motivational domain.

      60 healthy heterosexual men come to the lab twice, once for the fatty acid condition, once
      for the control condition (counterbalanced, and randomly assigned to sequence condition). In
      each session the same dv's are measured (first three tasks counterbalanced, progressive ratio
      task always at the end). At the end of the second session, participants also compete a series
      of interindividual difference measures (scales).

      This research forms the start of a collaboration between TARGID and the Center for Research
      in Marketing and Consumer Science at KU Leuven Faculty of Business and Economics. The current
      paradigm is largely based on an earlier study by Prof. Dr. Lukas Van Oudenhove showing the
      effect of intragastric administration of an identical fatty acid solution tested for mood
      regulation (Van Oudenhove et al., 2011). The procedure performed in this study, which is
      placing a thin nasogastric tube is frequently used in the TARGID research and other research
      and is absolutely proven to be safe, with no mention of any adverse reactions during numerous
      previous studies. Similar studies by our research group had already been approved by the
      Medical Ethics Committee, and as always sees Prof. Tack ensure that the study conducted by
      researchers who have received adequate training and have acquired sufficient experience in
      this specific procedure before the start of the study. The procedure can be carried out in
      healthy volunteers in a perfectly safe manner.
    
  