
    
      This prospective cohort study aims to build a gut microbiome library for Korean IBD patients,
      and also aims to explore gut microbial signatures along with distinct clinical/genetic
      features and their potential interplay using the investigator's multi-omics analysis
      platform.

      After signing the informed consent, various biological samples (fecal, mucosal and blood
      samples) as well as comprehensive clinical data (including psychometric evaluations using
      patient survey) will be obtained from patients periodically.

      The multi-omics investigations will comprise: metagenomics (16s RNA sequencing and whole
      metagenomic sequecing), metabolomics, human genomics (genome-wide SNP data, whole exome and
      genome sequencing), transcriptomics, proteomics, epigenetics and single-cell multi-omics
      analysis. In vitro and in vivo study using fecal samples will be conducted.

      In brief, after extracting the DNA from blood samples, whole genome sequencing will be
      performed and data will be compared with the previously reported variances. Novel variances
      or incidence of specific variances will be measured. Fecal sample will be collected and
      microbiome composition of each study subjects will be analyzed. Fecal microbial diversity
      will be measured from sequencing data of 16S ribosomal RNA which is highly preserved area of
      genetic information amongst microorganisms. Colonic mucosal sample will be collected when
      routine endoscopic surveillance is planned. Sample will be collected from diseased and normal
      mucosal altogether for analysis. Microbial diversity will be measured from 16S RNA sequencing
      data of the samples.

      The multi-omics data will be analyzed with comprehensive clinical metadata using an
      integrated bioinformatics analysis platform. Clinical data include demographics, disease
      characteristics and variouis patient-reported outomes data (including health-related quality
      of life, anxiety, depression and others). Patient-reported outcomes data will be collected
      using validated questionnaires periodically.

      Data from basic analysis will be re-explore in terms of inter-individual difference,
      difference between disease characteristics (such as disease phenotype, type of medical
      treatment and serologic markers), difference between psychosocial characteristics (such as
      the presence of anxiety or depression and quality of life) and etc. In addition, data from
      basic analysis will be used as the reference for the Korean IBD patient and it will be
      compared with other data obtained from the "different ethnicity" or "healthy" Korean
      population.

      In conclusion, this long term, large-scale prospective study will provide a platform for
      studying a field of translational medicine to reveal hidden signatures of gut microbiome
      underlying IBD and to identify potential biological markers in IBD.
    
  