
    
      Study Design:

      This is a follow-up to the original pilot study (HS# 2009-7015 at UCI/587-08 at LBMMC). This
      study is also designed to be a prospective, non-randomized, non-blinded trial of the effects
      of obesity on adequacy of antimicrobial (cefazolin) concentrations with increased doses (from
      2 grams to 3 grams) of preoperative prophylactic antibiotics within adipose tissues at the
      time of cesarean delivery.

      Inclusion Criteria:

      • Patients at term (>37 weeks) undergoing a cesarean delivery at LBMMC and UCI.

      Exclusion criteria:

        -  pre-gestational diabetes

        -  chronic hypertension

        -  collagen vascular disease

        -  renal impairment

        -  multiple gestation

        -  contraindications to cefazolin administration (known anaphylactic reaction to
           penicillin's or known cephalosporin allergy)

        -  any exposure to cephalosporins in one week prior to cesarean section

        -  need for emergent cesarean delivery or diagnosis of chorioamnionitis

      Study Procedure:

      All patients requiring cesarean delivery under non-emergent circumstances, as determined by
      their physician, will be approached for participation in study by co-investigators. They will
      be approached on Labor and Delivery during their intake evaluation on the day of their
      scheduled procedure. Based on published literature and preliminary power analysis we expect
      that each of the 2 study groups will need 1414 subjects to demonstrate statistically
      significant difference in antibiotic concentrations within adipose tissue. The two groups
      will consist of:

        1. OBESE GROUP (BMI 30-40)

        2. MORBIDLY OBESE GROUP (BMI >40)

             1. All subjects will receive cefazolin at least 30, but no more than 60 minutes prior
                to skin incision.

             2. At the time of cesarean delivery, the following tissue samples will be collected:

                  -  adipose tissue immediately following skin incision (prior to incision of the
                     fascia) and

                  -  adipose tissue prior to skin closure

                  -  serum sample after skin incision but prior to completion of the operative
                     procedure

      Approximately 2 grams of tissue sampled from each site and 5 cc of blood will be required for
      analysis.

      All samples will be collected by Dr. Swank, Dr. Wing or a physician who had previously been
      proctored in the proper tissue collecting techniques by either of the above mentioned
      investigators. Upon collection, tissue specimens will be blotted to remove residual blood and
      debris, weighed, and placed in a freezer (-80'C) until analysis. Serum samples will be drawn
      into red top tubes and immediately placed on wet ice. Immediately following completion of the
      surgery, they will then be centrifuged for 10 minutes at 3G (3200 rpm) and placed in a locked
      -80'C freezer until analysis.

      Tissue and serum samples will then be sent to David P. Nicolau, PhD, FCCP, FIDSA, at the
      Center for Anti-Infective Research and Development, Hartford Hospital, Hartford, Connecticut.
      Samples will be batched and sent all together at the completion of study enrollment. Dr.
      Swank and the study nurse will be responsible for securely packing samples on dry ice and
      overnight shipping them to Dr. Nicolau. Once with Dr. Nicolau, the tissue samples will be
      homogenized and analyzed to determine zones of inhibition. The Cefazolin concentrations will
      be determined in the serum samples using a previously validated high-performance liquid
      chromatography method. 16 Tissues and serum will be sent without direct identifiers. Dr.
      Nicolau will not have access to the identity of the research subjects providing the samples.
    
  