
    
      In this study, we propose to utilize two novel and innovative non-invasive tools to measure
      placental oxygenation and lipid and nutrient transport in vivo in women who are obese (OB),
      have pregestational diabetes (DM) or have neither (controls). To evaluate differences in
      placental oxygenation, we propose to use Blood Oxygen Level Depending (BOLD) imaging, a
      method of functional magnetic resonance imaging, to measure tissue oxygenation in the
      placenta during the third trimester of pregnancy. To evaluate placental lipid and nutrient
      content, we propose to utilize Magnetic Resonance Spectroscopy (MRS), a novel and powerful
      tool to compare lipid and nutrient transport across the placenta among OB, DM and controls.

      To confirm in vivo BOLD and MRS findings, we will extensively evaluate the placental lipid
      content and lipid transport capability. Fatty acid transport protein-4 (FATP-4), one of 6
      FATP proteins, is important for placental lipid accumulation, especially LC-PUFA21-24.
      Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is a crucial LC-PUFA for neurogenesis in early development18.
      Major facilitator super family domain containing MFSD2a is a lysophospholipid transporter
      required for DHA uptake in the brain and has been linked to placental DHA transfer. Lipid
      content of the placenta can be assessed by visualizing lipid droplets via perilipin 2, the
      most abundant structural protein on the surface of lipid droplets of adipocytes.

      We hypothesize that altered placental function including diminished placental oxygenation and
      abnormal placental transport of lipids and other metabolites will be seen in OB and DM women
      as compared to controls. We further hypothesize that ex vivo placental pathologic, histologic
      and immunohistochemistry characteristics will be associated with in vivo findings. Our
      findings from this pilot study have the potential to serve as the basis of a larger study to
      further evaluate the potential impact of BOLD and MRS technology on our understanding of
      placental lipid and oxygen transport among women with obesity and pregestational diabetes as
      compared to women without these conditions.
    
  