
    
      A prospective, randomized, 3-arm parallel trial on 45 males with ED that were never exposed
      to PDE5i therapy (naïve patients) will be enrolled. Recruitment will be performed via
      advertisement or by offering newly diagnosed naïve ED patients visiting the clinic to
      participate in the study.

      In each group, every patient will receive three treatment regimes (Viagra®50mg &
      Levitra®10mg, Viagra®100mg, Levitra®20mg), in different sequences of administration, as
      follows:

      Group 1) 15 naïve patients will start with Viagra®100mg, continue with Levitra®20mg and end
      the study with combined Viagra®50mg & Levitra®10mg.

      Group 2) 15 naïve patients will start with combined Viagra®50mg & Levitra®10mg, continue with
      Levitra®20mg and end the study with Viagra®100mg.

      Group 3) 15 naïve patients will start with Levitra®20mg, continue with Viagra®100mg and end
      the study with combined Viagra®50mg & Levitra®10mg.

      Inclusion criteria: - Relationship with the same partner for at least 3 month

        -  Age ranging between 35-65 years old

        -  Sexually active, (minimal frequency of one sexual encounter per 2 weeks)

        -  IIEF ED domain score 22 and below. Exclusion criteria: - Subjects with premature
           ejaculation as their main sexual complaint.

        -  Subjects with severe cardiovascular disease in the past 6 months, including cardiac
           failure, myocardial infarction, unstable angina, stroke or transient ischemic attack,
           symptomatic or clinically significant cardiac arrhythmias including atrial fibrillation,

        -  Subjects with Contraindications to PDE5i therapy. Namely patients receiving treatment
           with nitrate based medication or patients that for various reasons cannot take PDE5
           inhibitors (severe hepatic diseases- cirrhosis or ALT (Alanine aminotransferase)>2x
           upper limit of normal), renal impairment (creatinine clearance > 30ml/min) or known
           hereditary degenerative retinal disorders such as retinitis pigmentosa. ,

        -  Concomitant treatment with potent CYP3A4 and CYP2C9 inhibitors (e.g protease inhibitors
           ritonavir and saquinavir, ketoconazole, itrakonazole, miconazole, nefazodone,
           claritromycin, troleandomycin, erythromycin and cimetidine)

        -  Subjects mentally unfit for the study.

      SAFETY & ELIGIBILITY VISIT. After a thorough explanation of the nature of the study and its
      protocol and after understanding and signing the informed consent form. In this visit, each
      subject will start the study by measuring basic blood pressure levels and pulse rate. Under
      our supervision the subject will take the combined half dose as suggested. Blood pressure
      monitoring and pulse rate every half- hour at the clinic will be performed for 4 hours
      (according to the pharmacokinetic properties of the medications) . Any recordings of 20 mmhg
      below baseline will exclude the subject from the study. If no significant effect on blood
      pressure will be noted, the subject will be eligible for inclusion in the study, and will be
      invited for the FIRST visit 7 days later. ( a washout period of one week is sufficient to
      eliminate any effect of one-time dosing of the combined half dose treatment). Each included
      patient in the coming 6 visits will respond to the following pre-set sexual function and
      satisfaction questionnaires (Hebrew validated):

        1. The full IIEF (International Index Erectile Function) standard Questionnaire

        2. The SEAR (Self-Esteem And Relationship) questionnaire

        3. QVS (Quality of Sexual Life) questionnaire

        4. Quality of erection questionnaire

        5. Grade of erection scale

      At each visit, documentation of side-effects will be done and a physical examination (blood
      pressure and pulse rate) will be done. A 24 hour mobile phone dedicated to patient inquiries
      will be provided to each patient during the whole study.

      Visit 1: The subject will be offered, at random, for 4 attempts at home, either a combination
      dose regime (Viagra®50mg & Levitra®10mg, 4 tablets each) or 4 tablets of Viagra®100mg single
      dose or 4 tablets of Levitra® 20 mg. The subject will also receive 6 SEP (Sexual Encounter
      Profile) diaries to fill out at home after each sexual attempt. After 4 attempts the subject
      will return for visit 2, will respond to the same questionnaires and an additional EDITS
      (Erectile Dysfunction Inventory of Treatment Satisfaction) questionnaire. A new visit will be
      rescheduled for 2 weeks later to allow a washout period. At visit 3 they will receive the 2nd
      regime and 4 new SEP diaries, and after 4 attempts will return to visit 4, fill out the same
      4 questionnaires. Again, a new visit will be rescheduled for 2 weeks later to allow a washout
      period. On visit 5 they will return to receive the third treatment regime. Again, they will
      receive 4 SEP diaries to fill out after each sexual attempt at home. At their final visit
      (visit 6), in addition to the other 4 questionnaires, the patients will be required to
      respond to a preference questionnaire regarding the preferred regime.

      The approximate timeline for performing the study for every patient is 1/2 a year from
      recruitment. The estimated timeline for completion of the study is 16 months.

      *Only on inclusion

      ** Washout period 2 weeks

      Non-parametric statistical analysis of the collected data from the questionnaires will be
      performed.
    
  