
    
      Despite the significant prevalence of posttraumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and depression
      among veterans returning from Operations in Iraq and Afghanistan, less than half of service
      members who are referred for a specialty mental health assessment actually receive specialty
      mental health treatment. Systematic knowledge regarding access to care and quality of care
      delivered in civilian, VA, and military facilities for those who encounter barriers or
      difficulty is scant, and recent policy reviews have strongly questioned availability and
      quality of care. These problems of access and quality are major, overarching problems in
      war-related PTSD research. There are scientifically tested strategies from non-military
      settings and for other mental disorders to improve access to and quality of care;
      unfortunately, these strategies are unstudied in the military health system and for PTSD and
      depression. These strategies include care manager coordination (connecting patient, provider,
      and specialist), collaborative care (negotiated patient-provider problem definition,
      monitoring of status and treatment response, self-management support, telehealth sustained
      follow-up), and stepped care (logical, patient-centered and guideline-concordant treatment
      sequencing). This study aims to fill these gaps and evaluate these systems-level strategies
      in a military setting for PTSD and depression.

      The purpose of the STEPS UP (STepped Enhancement of PTSD Services Using Primary Care) trial
      is to compare centralized telephonic care management with preference-based stepped PTSD and
      depression care to optimized usual care. We hypothesize that the STEPS UP intervention will
      lead to improvements in (1) PTSD and depression symptom severity (primary hypothesis); (2)
      somatic symptom severity, alcohol use, mental health functioning, work functioning; (3) costs
      and cost-effectiveness. We further hypothesize that qualitative data obtained from interviews
      will show that (4) patients, their family members, and participating clinicians find the
      STEPS-UP intervention to be an acceptable, effective, and satisfying approach to deliver and
      receive PTSD and depression care.

      STEPS-UP is a six-site, two-parallel arm (N = 666) randomized controlled effectiveness trial
      with 3-month, 6-month, and 12-month follow-up comparing centralized telephonic stepped-care
      management to optimized usual PTSD and depression care. In addition to the existing PTSD and
      depression treatment options, STEPS UP includes web-based cognitive behavioral
      self-management, telephone cognitive-behavioral therapy, continuous RN nurse care management,
      and computer-automated care management support. Both arms can refer patients for mental
      health specialty care as needed, preferred and available. The study uses sites currently
      running RESPECT-Mil, the existing military primary care-mental health services practice
      network, to access site health care leaders and potential study participants at the 6 study
      sites.

      If effective, we expect that STEPS UP will increase the percentage of military personnel with
      unmet PTSD- and depression-related health care needs who get timely, effective, and efficient
      PTSD and depression care. Our real-world primary care effectiveness emphasis will prevent the
      Institute of Medicine's so called "15 year science to service gap." If successful, STEPS UP
      could roll out immediately, reinforcing and facilitating pathways to PTSD and depression
      recovery.
    
  