
    
      This is a prospective randomized open label parallel study.

      The selected patients will be randomly allocated to one of two groups

        -  Group I (30 patients): Patients receiving fenofibrate (100 mg) taken on dialysis days
           after the dialysis session (three times per week).

        -  Group II (30 patients): Patients receiving simvastatin (20 mg) taken on dialysis days
           after the dialysis session (3 times per week).

      A careful history of all patients including demographic characteristics, physical
      examination, chief complaint, past medical history, drug history, familial history, social
      history, disease(s).

      Monitoring Parameters:

      For efficacy, the following parameters are measured:

        1. Lipid profile (total cholesterol, HDL, TG and LDL from Friedwald formula [10] {LDL-C=
           TC-[HDL + TG\5]). (measured at baseline and every month for 4 months)

        2. C-reactive protein (CRP). (measured at baseline and after 4 months)

        3. Oxidative stress markers: oxidized LDL and human glutathione peroxidase (measured at
           baseline and after 4 months).

      For safety: (measured at baseline and every month for 4 months)

        1. Observe for signs & symptoms of muscle toxicity and measure phosphocreatine kinase
           (CPK).

        2. Liver function tests: ALT, AST, ALP & albumin.

        3. Urea & serum creatinine. (to monitor renal function)

        4. Hemoglobin

        5. Other measurements: Body mass index (BMI), Blood Pressure, electrolytes
           (Sodium,potassium, calcium, phosphorous) and assess patient compliance by tablet
           counting.

      Statistical analysis will be used to compare the effects of simvastatin and fenofibrate on
      lipid profile, inflammatory marker (CRP) and oxidative stress markers (oxidized LDL and
      glutathione peroxidase). In addition, comparing their safety on renal and hepatic functions,
      phosphocreatine kinase, blood pressure and blood glucose level.
    
  