
    
      Adrenocortical cancer (ACC) is a rare tumor that is optimally treated with surgical
      resection. However, many patients present with unresectable disease and relapses are common
      after surgical resection creating a need for more effective systemic therapies. Several
      investigators have reported responses to a variety of chemotherapy agents, without a clear
      improvement in overall survival. A possible explanation for these disappointing results is
      the high levels of expression of P-glycoprotein (Pgp) seen in a majority of adrenocortical
      cancers. Pgp, a membrane protein that can function as a drug efflux pump lowering the
      intracellular concentrations of various drugs, has been implicated as a mechanism of drug
      resistance.

      A prior National Cancer Institute (NCI) study (referred to as MAVE) tried to improve response
      rates by using a combined modality approach with chemotherapy and surgery. Prior in vitro
      studies had shown that mitotane inhibited Pgp and that continuous exposure to doxorubicin and
      vincristine was more effective at overcoming Pgp-mediated resistance than the same drugs
      given on an intermittent schedule. The MAVE study used daily oral mitotane with infusional
      doxorubicin, vincristine, and etoposide prior to tumor resection in patients with resectable
      or potentially resectable tumors. The results showed an overall response rate of 19%
      (including minor responses), and an overall median survival of 13.5 months. These results
      were similar to those reported with previous regimens in adrenocortical cancer (ACC). A
      possible explanation for the failure to achieve a higher response rate may be that mitotane
      was unable to inhibit Pgp. Although the serum levels of mitotane achieved in patients had
      been shown to block Pgp in vitro, inhibition of Pgp in patients was not accomplished, as
      documented by a validated surrogate assay using Pgp-expressing CD56+ cells and the Pgp
      substrate, rhodamine. Thus the question of whether Pgp inhibition would improve response
      rates remains unanswered.

      This trial will attempt to answer the latter question by using an agent, tariquidar (XR9576),
      which has been proven to inhibit Pgp in humans with minimal toxicity alone or in combination
      with chemotherapy. Tariquidar will be used with the regimen from the prior MAVE study in an
      effort to improve response rates and overall survival in patients with ACC whose options at
      this time are limited.
    
  