
    
      OBJECTIVES:

      Primary

        -  To evaluate the feasibility and safety of vaccination with cytomegalovirus (CMV)
           pp65-lysosomal-associated membrane protein (LAMP) mRNA-loaded dendritic cells (DCs)
           during recovery from therapeutic temozolomide-induced lymphopenia with or without
           autologous lymphocyte transfer (ALT) in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma
           multiforme and who are seropositive or seronegative for CMV.

      Secondary

        -  To assess humoral and cellular immune responses in these patients to CMV pp65-LAMP
           mRNA-loaded dendritic cell (CMV-DC) vaccine and to compare the impact of ALT and CMV
           seropositivity on these parameters.

        -  To determine if vaccination with or without ALT extends total time to progression or
           overall survival of these patients when compared to a recent historical cohort.

        -  To assess the differential ability of indium In^111-labeled DCs to track to the inguinal
           lymph nodes under different skin preparative conditions.

        -  To assess the differential ability of ^111In-labeled DCs to track to lymph nodes on the
           tumor-bearing and non-tumor-bearing side of the cervical lymph nodes.

        -  To characterize immunologic cell infiltrate in recurrent tumors and seek evidence of
           antigen escape in recurrent or progressive tumors.

      OUTLINE: This is a multicenter study.

      Patients undergo leukapheresis no more than 4 weeks after surgical resection to obtain
      peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) for human cytomegalovirus (CMV)-autologous lymphocyte
      transfer (ALT) and CMV-dendritic cell (DC) generation.

      Beginning 2-6 weeks after resection, patients undergo external beam radiotherapy (RT) once
      daily, 5 days a week, for up to 7 weeks. Beginning on day 1 of RT, patients receive oral
      temozolomide (TMZ) once daily for up to 49 days. Patients with progressive disease during RT,
      dependence on steroids above physiologic levels, intolerance to TMZ, or failure to meet cell
      release criteria for DCs or PBLs are removed from study.

      Beginning within 2-4 weeks after completion of concurrent RT and TMZ, patients resume oral
      TMZ once daily on days 1-5. Treatment repeats every 4-6 weeks for up to 6 courses* in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity. Beginning on day 19-23 of course 1,
      patients also receive an intradermal immunization. Patients are stratified by CMV serology
      status (positive vs negative) and are randomized to 1 of 2 vaccine treatment arms.

      NOTE: *Patients may receive additional TMZ treatment at the discretion of the patient and
      their treating neuro-oncologist.

        -  Arm I (DC vaccination plus ALT): Patients receive CMV-ALT IV over 45-90 minutes (course
           1 only) and 2 x 10^7 CMV pp65-LAMP mRNA-loaded DC (CMV-DC) vaccine intradermally and
           administered in equal portions to each inguinal region. Vaccination repeats every 1-3
           weeks for up to 3 doses in the absence of unacceptable toxicity.

        -  Arm II (DC vaccination alone): Patients receive CMV-DC vaccine as in arm I. At
           approximately 2-6 weeks after the third vaccination, all patients undergo a second
           leukapheresis to obtain peripheral blood mononuclear cells for immunologic monitoring
           and additional DCs for continued vaccinations. Patients may undergo an additional
           leukapheresis if they achieve a positive immunological response to therapy or if they
           require additional DCs to be generated due to a prolonged progression-free survival.
           Leukapheresis may be performed monthly, but will likely be performed every 4 months
           throughout the study to generate enough DCs to continue monthly vaccinations.

        -  Additional cohort (GM-CSF): Patients receive CMV-DC vaccine as in arm II, except that
           they will also receive GM-CSF in each vaccine. Vaccines continue for a total of 10
           unless tumor progression occurs. Patients in this cohort may be enrolled at any point
           prior to completion of adjuvant TMZ provided they meet all other eligibility criteria.

      Prior to the fourth vaccination, patients in both arms and patients with disease progression
      determined prior to the first scheduled vaccination are stratified according to side of
      inguinal injection (left vs right) and vaccination skin site preparation (unpulsed DCs vs
      tetanus toxoid). Patients are then randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

        -  Arm I (unpulsed DCs): Within 6 to 24 hours prior to vaccination, patients undergo skin
           site preparation with 1 x 10^6 unpulsed DCs at the vaccination site in one inguinal
           region. Patients then receive indium In^111-labeled CMV-DC.

        -  Arm II (tetanus toxoid): Within 6 to 24 hours prior to vaccination, patients undergo
           vaccination skin site preparation in the opposite inguinal region with tetanus toxoid.
           Patients then receive indium In^111-labeled CMV-DC as in arm I.

      At the time of progression, patients receive a final intradermal vaccination comprising
      ^111In-labeled CMV-DCs at the base of the jaw bilaterally and to the inguinal region, as a
      control. Gamma camera images are then taken at 24 and 48 hours after the vaccination to
      compare DC migration in the groin to each side of the neck injection sites and to observe
      migration from the neck injection sites to the deep and superficial cervical lymph nodes.

      After completion of TMZ therapy, patients continue receiving DC vaccinations in the absence
      of disease progression (except GM-CSF cohort - total of 10 vaccinations).

      Patients undergo blood sample collection periodically for immunologic studies. Samples are
      examined for functional CD4 and CD8 immune response of patients by cytokine fluorescent
      cytometry; enumeration of pp65 antigen-specific CD8+ T cells by tetramer analysis;
      antigen-induced T-cell proliferation; cytokine secretion and quantitative anti-pp65 antibody
      concentration in the serum by ELISA; and CMV pp65 quantitation in genomic DNA by reverse
      transcriptase-polymerase chain reaction. Patients may also undergo stereotactic biopsy or
      tumor resection to confirm tumor progression histologically and to assess immunologic cell
      infiltration and pp65 antigen escape at the tumor site by immunohistochemistry and polymerase
      chain reaction.

      Quality of life is assessed by the self-reported Functional Assessment of Cancer
      Therapy-Brain questionnaire at initial leukapheresis, at the first vaccination, after the
      third vaccination at the time of post-vaccine leukapheresis, and then with every
      even-numbered vaccination thereafter. A neuropsychological assessment is also conducted prior
      to the first vaccine and then with every second vaccination thereafter in order to monitor
      for any changes in neurocognitive or affective changes.

      After completion of study therapy, patients are followed periodically.
    
  