
    
      Aortic stenosis (AS) is a progressive chronic valvular disease that progressively and rapidly
      leads to the development of heart failure. This pathology, which is typical of the elderly,
      is increasing together with the age of the population and it is a candidate for the
      development of less invasive and innovative therapies that enable the treatment of older
      patients with polypathology and high degree of comorbidity. According to the most recent
      guidelines for the treatment of valvular heart disease, the degenerative AS is the most
      common valve disease in Western countries especially in the group aged over 65 years. The
      degenerative AS, in its most severe form, is a highly debilitating chronic condition
      characterized by symptoms as such precordial pain suggestive of angina, transient altered
      state of consciousness, or syncope, dyspnea and other heart failure symptoms secondary to
      reduced stroke volume. A recent systematic review (2) estimated the prevalence of AS in the
      elderly population aged over 75 years amounted to 12.4% while the prevalence of severe AS
      amounted to 3.4%. The average survival after the onset of symptoms is about 2-3 years. The
      natural history of the disease is not modified by conservative treatment and, to date, the
      surgical aortic valve replacement is recommended by both the American and European guidelines
      for patients with severe symptomatic and asymptomatic patients with reduced ejection fraction
      (80 years obtain appreciable results with a less than 10% mortality and morbidity between 5
      and 10%. Some conditions, such as the presence of comorbidities (chronic obstructive
      pulmonary disease, vasculopathy, chronic renal failure, dementia and other) and the advanced
      age of the patients, make the surgery too risky or impossible to achieve. Therefore,
      approximately one third of patients in advanced age is not currently subjected to surgery.

      After the "first man" made in 2002, TAVI has been introduced in the clinic in 2007 and has
      quickly gained critical acclaim. Up to now, about 150,000 TAVI procedures were performed with
      a growing trend.

      The methodical approach of the techniques involve various approaches: transfemoral,
      transapical, (the two most popular), transaxillary, transaortic.

      The enormous diffusion of the method follows the growing demand. Conservative treatment of
      the SA guarantees any improvement; optimized drugs therapy is able nor to mitigate the
      symptomatology associated nor to resolve the underlying disease.

      The surgery requires the use of extracorporeal circulation and, although conducted in the
      less invasive way possible, it remains an intervention in which elderly patients with
      polypathology and high degree of comorbidity are hardly addressed.

      A clinical evaluation and multidimensional geriatric assessment are indispensable to ensure a
      correct diagnosis of the patient, estimating the risk of periprocedural mortality and
      morbidity and evaluate the actual possibility of intervention benefit on the patient's
      overall health.

      MitraClip

      The severe mitral regurgitation is a clear indication to intervention of mitral repair which
      has advantages compared to traditional surgery, preserving the contractile function of the
      left ventricle, reducing the incidence of adverse events related to the system of the
      prosthesis, by reducing the hospital mortality, morbidity and hospitalization, improving the
      long-term survival. The surgical risk of mitral plastic surgery presents a percentage lower
      than 2.5% in the centers that perform no less than 140 operations per year. However, an
      ejection fraction (FE) of the left ventricle lower than 55% is a negative prognostic index.
      In addition, the mitral plastic surgery has a long and difficult learning curves, but also
      the indisputable advantage of less invasiveness than traditional surgery, which allows its
      use even in patients deemed to be at higher operative risk. The placement of a MitraClip is
      the evolution of conventional surgery (Alfieri's speech): percutaneous, trans-septal
      puncture, placing clips on the mitral leaflets to create a dual orifice and therefore
      decrease or completely abolish the valve insufficiency . The EVEREST II study has shown that
      this procedure is less effective than surgery in reducing the degree of mitral regurgitation,
      but the percutaneous repair of mitral regurgitation is more secure and has shown improved
      clinical outcomes, comparable to cardiac surgery. At a post-hoc analysis, patients who
      benefit most from the MitraClip patients are elderly with low ejection fraction and
      functional mitral insufficiency. Considering that the prevalence of mitral insufficiency in
      the elderly is 30-50%, it is comprehensible how the MitraClip will have certain evolution in
      numerical terms.

      The MitraClip is, therefore, a valid therapeutic option in case of functional mitral
      regurgitation, since the surgery in these patients is burdened with high mortality, by high
      recurrence of mitral regurgitation and a long hospital stay.

      The MitraClip is to be used in a small number of properly selected patients. The procedural
      success depends on the ability to choose an individualized therapy for each patient depending
      on valvular anatomy, valve functionality, on comorbidities and on patient's life expectation,
      performing an estimation of the risk-benefit of the two percutaneous techniques and surgical
      intervention.

      This estimate and evaluation of the patient must be operated in the geriatric
      multidisciplinary field, to ensure a comprehensive risk assessment of patients and their best
      selection.

      Aim of the study

      Identify changes in the degree of cognitive decline, of autonomy in carrying out activities
      of daily living, quality of life, nutritional status, pre- and postoperatively (6 months
      after the procedure) polypathology degree in elderly patients to be undergone or undergoing
      TAVI or positioning MitraClip because suffering from aortic valvular stenosis or severe
      mitral insufficiency. The patients undergo to a battery of tests, to a 5 minutes
      electrocardiographic record to evaluate the Heart Rate Variability (HRV) and to a complete
      echocardiographic evaluation.
    
  