
    
      Descriptions of tinnitus date back to the time of ancient Egypt, yet science has failed to
      unravel the mysterious underlying mechanisms that produce these subjective auditory
      perceptions of sound. These perceptions may be manifestations of damage resulting from noise
      exposure, ototoxicity, or other abnormal conditions of the auditory system. However, many
      individuals have idiopathic tinnitus for which no specific cause can be determined. Although
      often presenting in conjunction with hearing loss, the magnitude of hearing loss does not
      necessarily correspond with the severity of tinnitus. In addition, some individuals reporting
      tinnitus experience concomitant hyperacusis. This relationship suggests these processes may
      be linked by underlying imbalances at the level of the hair cell. The possible influence of
      magnesium (Mg) and its antagonist, calcium, has been discussed in the literature as a
      contributing factor in the mitigation of noise-induced hearing loss, ototoxicity, and the
      hyperexcitability of the auditory system. Permanent and temporary changes in auditory
      function have been linked to nutritional deficiencies of magnesium. Mg deficiency has
      resulted in increased susceptibility to noise-induced hearing loss, ototoxicity, and
      hyperexcitability of the auditory system.

      The recommended daily allowance (RDA) for Mg in adults is 4.5 mg/kg; however, all age groups
      of Americans fall short of the RDA for Mg by 100 mg daily. This lack of appropriate magnesium
      intake may have negative consequences. For example, the putative Mg mechanism within the
      auditory system involves a metabolic cellular cascade of events. Specifically, Mg deficiency
      leads to increased permeability of the calcium channel in the hair cells with a consequent
      over-influx of calcium, an increased release of glutamate via exocytosis, and overstimulation
      of N-methyl-D-aspartate receptors on the auditory nerve fibers. Recent studies of both
      noise-induced hearing loss and idiopathic sensorineural hearing loss have suggested that Mg
      supplementation may lessen the severity of tinnitus in patients. Mg improved hearing recovery
      and lessened tinnitus in patients with idiopathic sudden hearing loss. More recently, a
      well-controlled study that Mg was a relatively safe and convenient adjunct to corticosteroid
      treatment for enhancing the improvements of hearing in acute-onset sensorineural hearing loss
      at a dose of 4 g. The protective effect of Mg in noise-induced hearing loss has been
      previously reported.

      Despite these encouraging findings, no controlled study has examined the effect of Mg
      supplementation for subjects with moderate to severe tinnitus.

      In this study subjects made 4 visits to the clinic over about 2 months. At the first visit,
      subjects had a hearing test. Prior to beginning each round of supplements, subjects were
      asked to rate the severity of their tinnitus on a 1-10 scale, and to complete the Tinnitus
      Handicap Inventory (THI) questionnaire. Subjects were then randomized to 1 of 2 groups. One
      group began with 532 mg of Mg for 25 days, the other group began with a placebo supplement
      for 25 days.

      At visit 2, the subjects had a hearing test, rated their tinnitus, and completed the THI
      questionnaire as well as the Treatment Period Survey. Subjects did not take any supplement
      for 2 weeks, then returned for visit 3.

      At Visit 3, the subjects had a hearing test, rated their tinnitus, and completed the THI
      questionnaire they then took the opposite supplement (placebo or Mg) for 25 days.

      At Visit 4, the subjects had a hearing test, rated their tinnitus, and completed the THI
      questionnaire as well as the Treatment Period Survey.
    
  