
    
      35 consecutive patients referred for bariatric surgery will be recruited either at the
      obesity clinic, or from inpatient (scheduled for bariatric surgery). A detailed history and a
      complete physical examination will be done at the first visit along with anthropometric
      measures; routine blood tests, liver function, hormonal assessment, and certain metabolic and
      inflammatory markers will be evaluated. They will also have an abdominal ultrasound for
      initial NAFLD assessment, fibroscan to detect liver fibrosis, and an MRI to measure hepatic
      fat content and body fat composition including intra-abdominal and extra-abdominal fat. These
      patients will be asked to lose a certain amount of kilos (depending on their BMI and the
      surgeon preference) out of their original weight, in order to become candidates for bariatric
      surgery at King Saud University Hospital (KKUH).

      At the second visit, (if they lose the recommended amount weight) we will assess their weight
      loss; obtain blood for the same hormonal and inflammatory markers assessment. Nonetheless, if
      they did not lose weight and the treating surgeon gave them a third appointment, we will
      consider their third visit as a second visit; preforming all the investigations mentioned
      above. In this case we will interpret their results with respect to the total duration of
      "before surgery" weight loss.

      During the operation, tissue biopsy will be taken with a core needle biopsy for the liver and
      a sharp non-thermal instrument for subcutaneous fat, visceral fat, and abdominal muscle
      immediately after skin incision. A CAP certified tissue manager would process all tissues.
      Liver biopsy will be sliced it to two parts; the first half is for histological evaluation,
      but the other half will be stored for tissue studies. The histologic slides will be stained
      with hematoxylin and eosin (H&E), and Masson Trichrome stains for microscopic evaluation.
      This evaluation will be provided by a single histopathologist who will be blinded to the
      patients' clinical condition, and the order of the biopsy.

      Follow Up:

      After the surgery follow up appointments will be scheduled 3 months, 6 months, 1 year, and
      annually till 5 years. The followings will be done in each visit:

        1. Thorough physical exam as per the CRF.

        2. Take a blood sample to evaluate liver function, metabolic, and inflammatory changes
           using the same parameters as those in the baseline.

        3. Request for: fibroscan and abdominal ultrasound. Second, third and fourth liver biopsies
           will be taken percutaneously 3 months, 1 year, and 5 years following the initial biopsy
           respectively. These biopsies will be obtained using core tissue biopsy with ultrasound
           guidance for the same histological assessment and tissue studies. Another MRI will be
           schedule 1 year after the surgery.

      Specimens collected under this trial will be part of the King Saud University Liver Disease
      Research Centre Biobanking and will follow all policy and procedures within the biobanking
      protocol as approved by the IRB committee.
    
  