
    
      Small cell lung cancer (SCLC) is one of the most aggressive malignancies with a 5-year
      survival rate of less than 7%. SCLC is characterized by rapid doubling time, high growth
      fraction and early development of widespread metastases. SCLC accounts for roughly 93% of all
      high-grade neuroendocrine carcinomas. The prognosis for SCLC is extremely poor with a median
      survival less than a year for extensive-stage disease. Therapeutic options have not advanced
      significantly in over two decades, with frontline treatment consisting of platinum doublet
      therapy for 3-6 cycles. While most patients show an initial favorable response to
      Carboplatin/cisplatin + etoposide, this response is usually short-lived. Most patients
      relapse with resistant disease between 3 to 6 months after completion of initial
      chemotherapy.

      Based on preclinical data supporting the role of immune checkpoint and PARP (poly ADP ribose
      polymerase ) inhibitors in SCLC, combining nivolumab and rucaparib has the potential to
      prolong progression-free survival and overall survival. These two classes of drugs have
      non-overlapping toxicities. This novel combination has not been tried in a front-line
      maintenance setting for SCLC.

      Eligible patients will have pathological (biopsy) or cytologically confirmed stage IV SCLC,
      and have achieved either partial or complete response post frontline chemotherapy with
      platinum doublet. Patients will be treated with combination rucaparib and nivolumab. The
      recommended starting dose of rucaparib as a continuously administered oral monotherapy is 600
      mg BID. Nivolumab will be administered as an intravenous infusion once every 4 weeks at a
      fixed dose of 480 mg. In the absence of treatment delays due to adverse event(s), treatment
      may continue for 24 months.

      Progression-free survival, overall survival, disease control rates, objective response rate,
      quality of life, and tumor mutation burden will be evaluated during this study (up to 3
      years).
    
  