
    
      The present trial is based on a randomized controlled study. The investigators will recruited
      40 participants, including two groups of at least 20 hospitalized elderly: 1) the
      experimental group 2) the control group. Participants included in the experimental condition
      will take part to group reminiscence therapy sessions, while the control group will take part
      to recreational group discussions. Psychometric outcomes will serve as quantitative dependent
      variables.

      A group setting lead by two psychologists is planned for both conditions. Each meeting will
      last 60 minutes and 6 participant will take part to it. The real setting will be the nursing
      home: a comfortable room will be provided, accessible also to wheel-chairs, participants will
      sit in circle. The involvement of each participant is encouraged, trying to stimulate the
      discussion/debate in a positive atmosphere. Personal critics, moral judgments or political
      statements are stopped.

      Following, a description of the protocol in details for the experimental and the control
      group.

        1. In the experimental condition, everything begins ensuring the participants that all the
           memories shared will not be spread out of the group. Every session will deal with a
           theme, recalling specific autobiographic experiences; they will be suggested following a
           chronological order. Participants are encouraged to bring photos or objects related to
           past themes: at the end of each meeting the theme of the following is revealed. The
           researchers can also bring materials as cues for reminiscence.

        2. In the control condition, Every meeting will offer topics for discussion taken from
           newspaper and newscasts: personal opinions are promoted, and links with the daily life
           of participants are welcome (everyday activities, personal preferences). The main goal
           is to stimulate the social interaction and the communication, without dealing with
           personal events from the past nor private memories.

      3-months follow up is planned in order to verify the efficacy of the training over time.
    
  