
    
      The current procedure of DCD organ donation and procurement follows a well-established course
      for lung, liver, kidney and pancreas transplantation in the United States. After consent has
      been obtained, the organs are allocated through UNOS. When all parties are present and ready,
      the donor is withdrawn from life support (i.e., discontinuation of mechanical ventilation and
      any vasoactive medications). The surgical teams are generally present on the premises but not
      at the donor's bedside. After circulatory arrest occurs, which is determined by the absence
      of pulse and organized rhythmic cardiac activity, death is declared by a physician not
      associated with the transplant teams. Subsequently a period of stand-off is observed (5
      minutes for organs donated in New York) to ensure complete cessation of the circulation
      before organ procurement is commenced. If after withdrawal of life support the patient does
      not progress to circulatory death within the allotted time (variable among hospitals, but 180
      minutes in this study), the procurement is abandoned and the patient is transferred out of
      the operating room and placed on palliative measures.

      Given that DCD organ donation is already currently practiced in the US, the same standard
      approach defined by each state and locality can also be applied to DCD heart donation and
      will be followed for this protocol at NYULH. However, this protocol will utilize a
      normothermic regional perfusion (NRP) strategy that involves reestablishment of circulatory
      blood flow after the period of circulatory arrest has been established and the 5 minutes of
      standoff time has passed. The local Organ Procurement Organization (LiveOnNY) and NYULH
      Medical Leadership have reviewed and approved this approach to DCD heart donation.
      Specifically, normothermic regional perfusion involves the following steps:

        1. Opening the chest through a standard sternotomy used for heart and lung procurement.

        2. Ligation of the all the blood vessels that supply blood to the brain to ensure that
           blood flow to the brain is not reestablished once circulation is restarted as described
           below.

        3. Standard cannulation of the aorta and the right atrium as is done for cardiac surgical
           procedures.

        4. Initiation of cardiopulmonary bypass, which will re-establish the flow of blood to all
           organs of the body including the heart under normothermia. The initial step for ligation
           of the blood vessels to the head is necessary to ensure that blood flow to the brain
           does not occur.

      Once blood flow to the heart is established, the heart will start beating. At 30 minute
      intervals, the donor will be separated from cardiopulmonary bypass and the heart will be
      assessed for functionality. If accepted standard DBD procurement will commence. The heart
      transplantation surgery on the potential recipient will only begin once the heart has been
      accepted as suitable.

      If after assessment the heart is not suitable, cardiopulmonary bypass will be restarted. The
      donor heart will be reassessed at 30 minute intervals up to 180 minutes. If no significant
      acceptable recovery occurs and the heart is not deemed suitable for transplantation, then the
      study will be terminated, but the remaining organs can be recovered as standard practice.
    
  