
    
      Goals:

        1. Determine the relationship between gait stability (as measured in the Lab) and brain
           function (MRI) in 50 old (70 years old and over) and 10 young adults (20-40 years old)
           that represent heathy brain.

        2. To determine which of the training intervention methods (25 older adults that
           participate in random training vs. 25 older adults that participate in block non-random
           training) are more beneficial for balance recovery responses and for improved brain
           function.

      Methods: This study is a clinical investigation study. First stage - Individuals that show an
      interest in participating in the study will be exposed to a brief interview before further
      testing is performed to see if they fit the inclusion-exclusion criteria. Individuals who
      pass the interview a screening, and physical examination and the additional questionnaires
      and functional tests described below.

      Second stage - Testing different motor learning paradigms for improving balance recovery
      ability: A convenience sample of 60 healthy subjects (10 young's, 50 older adults) will be
      recruited. After testing their clinical balance performance (Berg balance test, 6-minutes'
      walk and get up and go) and cognitive function (MOCA), All testing will occur on a specific
      motor-driven surface perturbation treadmill (BaMPer). The Gait protocol will include about
      10-20 minutes of comfortable pace walking, than progressive unexpected surface perturbations
      will be added. The same protocol will be performed with during standing condition. Subjects
      will also walk on the treadmill without perturbations. The order of the different test
      conditions will be randomized.

      Outcome measures: The stepping threshold as measured by the distance of the platform
      movements in centimeters will be measured. Quantitative parameters of the compensatory
      stepping/ and motor ability (i.e., step reaction time, step time, step length), descriptive
      parameters of the stepping strategy after perturbation

      (i.e., arm responses, upper body responses, leg step threshold and fall threshold). In
      addition, we will be testing the correlation between brain activity and anatomy using brain
      imaging in 10 young and 50 older adults and correlate with balance/motor function.

      The aims of this study are to determine the relationship between the different requirements
      for gait stability (walking without perturbations, ability to overcome small perturbations,
      ability to overcome larger perturbations and, largest recoverable perturbation during
      walking) and brain function and anatomy. The research hypothesis: there is a correlation
      between the age related atrophies in areas of the brain and functional capacity

      Third stage - A Randomized control trial we will compare two perturbation motor learning
      paradigms with different challenge level of the practice condition (i.e. blocked practice vs
      random practice). According to motor learning theory we hypothesize that a) healthy older
      adults will benefit more from random practice. The purpose of this stage is to investigate
      the effects of task practice order (random vs blocked) on motor learning (i.e. responding to
      perturbations during walking) in older adults. According to motor learning theory we
      hypothesize that a) healthy older adults will benefit more from the random motor learning
      approach as compared to using blocked practice.
    
  