
    
      This study will specifically try:

        1. To compare the time required to achieve complete alignment of crowded mandibular
           anterior teeth (canine to canine) between piezotome-corticision assisted and
           conventional orthodontics.

        2. To investigate the rate of alignment of mandibular anterior teeth at different time
           points until complete alignment is achieved using dental casts taken at every visit.

        3. To compare subject's perception of pain, comfort and satisfaction between the
           piezotome-corticision assisted and conventional orthodontics using two questionnaires.

      Eligibility criteria includes:

        -  Adult patients 18 or older

        -  Single arch or double arch treatment

        -  Non-extraction treatment in the mandibular arch

        -  Presence of full complement dentition from first molar to first molar

        -  No spaces in the mandibular arch

        -  Mandibular anterior irregularity index greater than 5

        -  Patient with healthy periodontium and attachment loss of up to 2mm

        -  The amount of crowding should allow for bracket placement

        -  No therapeutic intervention planned involving intermaxillary or other intraoral or
           extraoral appliances including elastics, lip bumpers, maxillary expansion appliances, or
           headgear prior to the complete alignment of mandibular anterior teeth.

      Exclusion criteria includes:

        -  Failure to provide oral and written consent to participation

        -  Medical problems that affect tooth movement (Refer to Appendix I)

        -  Presence of primary teeth in the mandibular anterior area

        -  Missing permanent mandibular anterior teeth

        -  Inability to place brackets in the anterior mandibular teeth

        -  Breakage of any of the mandibular anterior brackets that have not been replaced within a
           week

      Outcome measures

        1. Two outcome assessors will be calibrated in the assessment of the Little's irregularity
           index. The irregularity index will be measured twice by two blinded outcome assessors
           using a fine-tip digital caliper.

        2. The subjects will be instructed to record their level of pain: immediately, 1 hour, 12
           hours, and 7 days after the first wire placement [76, 82]. They will be also asked to
           report if they had taken any pain medications, their level of ease and satisfaction with
           the procedure, if they would undergo this procedure again, and if they would recommend
           it to a friend. A 100 mm Visual Analog Scale (VAS) will be used to evaluate the level of
           pain, ease, and satisfaction of all the subjects, with anchors at each end of the line
           that read "no pain (easy, satisfied)" (0 mm) and "most pain (complicated, not
           satisfied)" (100 mm).
    
  