
    
      Rationale:

      Sentinel lymph node biopsy has reduced the number of patients needing to undergo axillary
      lymph node dissection (ALND). However, axillary lymph node dissection is part of curative
      therapy for a large group of patients with advanced invasive breast cancers and melanoma.
      Seroma may cause symptomatic discomfort requiring needle aspiration and is often associated
      with infection, wound dehiscence, skin necrosis, persistent fibrotic encapsulated seromas and
      may even delay adjuvant therapies [1]. Therefore, extensive research in finding the best
      technique in reducing seroma is needed.

      Substances intended to seal small blood vessels by triggering collagen and fibrinogen
      synthesis supporting surgical hemostasis, are assumed to be able to contribute to sealing of
      these lymphatic vessels. Contradicting results were found in the effect of several
      fibrin-glue coated collagen patches [2-5] and fibrin glue [6,7]. Furthermore, the use of
      electrothermal bipolar vessel sealing system (LigaSure) in axillary dissection showed no
      significant reduction in rate of aspiration of seroma [8].

      This pilot study is intended to assess the value of a haemostatic sealant (Hemopatch), a pad
      of collagen derived from bovine dermis, coated with NHS-PEG (pentaerythritol polyethylene
      glycol ether tetra-succinimidyl glutarate), in reducing seroma related complications after
      ALND with the advantage that this sealant is pliable and flexible.

      Objective:

      To evaluate if the use of Hemopatch in axillary lymph node dissection shows potential in
      reducing clinically significant seroma and seroma related complications, which might serve as
      a basis for a randomized controlled trial.

      Study design:

      A prospective cohort will be compared to a historical control group. Eighteen consecutive
      patients will undergo axillary lymph node dissection and after completion of lymphadenectomy,
      Hemopatch will be applied to the axillary surgical field. These results will be compared to
      the results of a historical control group consisting of 46 patients who have undergone ALND
      without the Hemopatch between January 2014 and December 2018.

      Follow-up will be conducted for three months postoperatively.

      Study population:

      Patients of 18 years or older, diagnosed with stage III melanoma or breast cancer and
      indication for wide local excision (WLE) and/or axillary lymphadenectomy (ALND).

      Intervention (if applicable):

      Application of Hemopatch after standard axillary lymph node dissection.

      Main study parameters/endpoints:

      Proportion of patients treated with Hemopatch who develop clinically significant seroma.

      Nature and extent of the burden and risks associated with participation, benefit and group
      relatedness:

      Patients will be informed about the study before inclusion in the outpatient clinic. Informed
      consent will be obtained in the outpatient clinic a week after patients were initially
      informed. Postoperative check-ups will be done more frequently. Standard postoperative
      check-ups are planned at one week and three months. Additional study postoperative check-up
      will be performed at six weeks. Therefore, patients will be required to undergo one
      additional check-up. During out patients' visits, the wound will be evaluated and patients
      will be asked to fill in a questionnaire. Application of the Hemopatch is expected to reduce
      clinically significant seroma after ALND. The only potential risk for the patient is that the
      Hemopatch is ineffective.
    
  