
    
      "With regard to the analysis of data on the identification of hyperthyroidism in children
      using the various medico-administrative databases, the epidemiological study of
      hyperthyroidism in children in France seems feasible using data on drug consumption from the
      SNIIRAM. These data will make it possible for the first time to study the impact of the
      disease in terms of serious morbidity and mortality (related to the disease and/or treatment)
      and to make recommendations for the management of the disease in order to improve the
      prognosis of the disease in children.

      Thanks to these results, incidence data on the disease in children will be able to be
      estimated for the first time in France, as well as its temporal and spatial trends. They will
      be compared with national studies carried out in Sweden, Denmark and the United Kingdom on
      children. The spatial distribution in France can also be studied and compared with existing
      or emerging hypotheses, in particular concerning endocrine disrupters (French public health
      data). These analyses could also allow the generation of new causal hypotheses.

      Finally, this work could lead to the establishment of national surveillance of
      hyperthyroidism in children. Prolonged follow-up is necessary, even after the end of medical
      treatment or after radical treatment, to determine the effectiveness of the management of
      patients during childhood and the impact on their overall health.

      This study should therefore make it possible to propose recommendations to optimize the
      therapeutic management of hyperthyroidism in children and adolescents and improve the quality
      of life in adulthood for these patients.

      The main objective of the study is to describe the complications (morbidity and mortality)
      associated with the 3 management modalities (treatment with synthetic antithyroid drugs
      (ATS), radioactive iodine and thyroidectomy) of children followed for hyperthyroidism in
      France, over a period of 11 years.

      The study design chosen is that of an observational historical cohort study based on
      medico-administrative data from the National Inter-Regime Health Insurance Information System
      (SNIIRAM), which contains data from the PMSI (Information Systems Medicalization Program).

      The study period begins on 01.01.2006 and ends on 31.12.2017.
    
  