
    
      Study Objectives:

      The study takes two lines of research:

      1 - Imaging and Research circulating tumor cells:

      The main objective is to evaluate the diagnostic value of the couple scanner low intensity
      and speed search of circulating tumor cells (CTC-LDCT) for screening in a population at high
      risk of lung cancer.

      The secondary objectives are:

        1. / comparing the added diagnostic value of dual-CTC LDCT screening that screening with
           LDCT used alone as it was used in the NLST study for lung cancer screening;

        2. / to assess the interest assess the diagnostic value of research of circulating tumor
           cells to identify extrapulmonary cancers associated with smoking; 3 / evaluate the
           psychological effects of screening (see psychological study).

      2 - Psychological Study The main objective is to study the emotional and psychosocial
      consequences of LDCT screening in the specific context of circulating tumor cells. This is to
      identify 1 / specific mechanisms of fear, anxiety and mental distress, 2 / adaptation
      strategies that could be beneficial for other patients, 3 / specific stressors caused by the
      device screening and / or medical information given to patients.

      The secondary objective is to adjust and improve the communication skills of health
      professionals in order to develop an appropriate framework to support the emotional and
      psychological aspects involved in the screening process when ( will be) used daily in
      clinical practice.

      Study Design

        1. - Imaging and Research circulating tumor cells This is a prospective cohort study,
           multicenter (hospitals attached to the University Paris Descartes), open,
           non-randomized, single arm. Each subject enrolled in the study will undergo three
           screening procedures. Patients with cancer prevalent in the first exam will be offered
           treatment after the balance sheet. Only subjects who do not have cancer at the first
           examination will return to the actual screening study in search of incident cases. The
           same sequence of evaluation will be repeated once a year for 2 years.

        2. - Psychological Study To achieve the objectives, a qualitative study based on grounded
           theory ( "grounded theory") will be built. Grounded theory is a research methodology
           that studies the psychosocial processes to make them modeled theoretically. Since this
           method involves small samples of subjects, promotes flexibility of data collection and
           detailed analysis of the cases studied.
    
  