
    
      Interstitial lung diseases (ILD) include various chronic lung disorders such as sarcoidosis
      and idiopathic lung fibrosis (IPF). In the Netherlands the incidence of sarcoidosis is
      approximately 20-25 per 100.000 inhabitants whereas that of IPF is approximately 1000-1500
      new cases each year.

      In short, three different stages in the development of ILD can be discerned. Firstly, the
      lung tissue is damaged. In sarcoidosis this damage is thought to be antigen-driven,
      multisystemically and leading to the formation of granuloma. Moreover, it is suggested that
      genetic factors play an important role in the genesis of sarcoidosis. In IPF the exact
      etiology of this damage is unknown, but it has been speculated to be inflicted by an
      unidentified stimulus that produces repeated episodes of acute lung injury Secondly, the
      walls of the air sacs in the lung become inflamed as a reaction to the caused damage. This
      results in the activation of inflammatory cells like macrophages that cause the expression of
      pro-inflammatory cytokines, especially interleukin-10 and tumour necrosis factor (TNF)-alpha,
      in the lungs.

      Finally, scarring (or fibrosis) begins in the interstitium (or tissue between the air sacs)
      and the lung becomes stiff, causing an irreversible loss of the tissue's ability to transfer
      oxygen.

      It is well-known that inflammation plays a key-role in the occurrence and progression of ILD,
      although the long-lasting hypothesis that inflammation alone leads to fibrosis is being
      questioned at the moment. Conventional treatment of ILD comprises nonspecific
      anti-inflammatory agents such as glucocorticoids (prednisone) and other immune-suppressing
      medication such as cyclophosphamide, methotrexate and gamma-interferon. However, all these
      therapies fail to be completely efficacious, suggesting that inflammation alone is indeed not
      solely responsible for the occurrence and progression of ILD. Paradoxically, anti-TNF-α
      agents such as infliximab and thalidomide have recently shown some beneficial effects in
      sarcoidosis.

      A pivotal role for reactive oxygen species (ROS) in all three stages has also been proposed.
      Various biomarkers of oxidative stress, i.e. exhaled ethane and both 8-isoprostane and
      oxidized proteins in the bronchoalveolar fluid, are elevated in ILD patients of different
      clinical stages. However, only little is known about the effect of this elevated oxidative
      stress on the endogenous antioxidant levels present in ILD. Interestingly, clinical
      administration of an antioxidant, i.e. N-acetylcysteine (NAC), to IPF patients has recently
      demonstrated that this slows the deterioration of vital capacity and carbon monoxide
      diffusing capacity (DLCO) at 12 months. This supports the hypothesis that oxidative stress is
      involved in ILD and proofs the principle of antioxidant treatment in ILD.

      It is well-known that oxidative stress and inflammation are intertwined and that the
      pro-inflammatory cytokine TNF-alpha is capable of stimulating oxidative stress in various
      cells and tissues. As a result, the preliminary beneficial effects of anti-TNF-alpha agents
      combined with the preliminary beneficial effects of antioxidants in ILD may indicate that a
      new strategy of treatment of ILD should ideally combine the reduction of both the oxidative
      stress and the inflammation occurring in these diseases.

      Recently, much attention has been given to the potential health-beneficial properties of
      flavonoids, natural occurring polyphenolic compounds, and to quercetin, the most commonly
      occurring flavonoid, in particular. Quercetin is known to be a powerful antioxidant and to
      possess some anti-inflammatory effects. It is therefore tempting to speculate that quercetin
      could exert positive effects in ILD.

      Since the anti-oxidative and inflammatory changes in ILD are still not exactly known, the aim
      of the present study is to determine both the anti-oxidant and the inflammatory status in
      ILD, i.e. sarcoidosis and fibrosis. Furthermore, the possible anti-inflammatory effect of
      antioxidants on LPS-induced cytokine production, exemplified with the flavonoid quercetin,
      will be examined.
    
  