
    
      Aging is the term used to describe the progressive loss of physical ability, changes in
      appearance, and/or decrease in mental agility that we experience over time. This process
      advances at different rates as a consequence of genetic and environmental factors.

      Aging of the population can be considered a success of public health policies and
      socioeconomic development, although it also constitutes a challenge for society, which must
      adapt in order to improve the health and functional capacity of the elderly, as well as their
      social participation and their safety.

      However, a recent major study on health and aging warned that the burden of chronic disease
      will considerably affect quality of life in aging patients.

      The increase in the average age worldwide makes chronic diseases and the consequent reduction
      in well-being a prominent global public health challenge. One of the greatest challenges for
      a national health system is to achieve sustained care of people with chronic health problems
      (both physical and psychological).

      HIV infection is a chronic disease. However, the life expectancy of affected patients has
      increased considerably thanks to advances in antiretroviral treatment. In 2015, around 50% of
      HIV-infected patients were ≥50 years old. It is estimated that by 2030, around 70% of the
      HIV-infected population in the United States of America will be aged ≥50 years.

      Growing evidence in the scientific literature suggests an increased prevalence of long-term
      comorbidities associated with antiretroviral treatment and the infection itself compared with
      noninfected controls of the same age. In addition, aging could manifest 10 years earlier with
      respect to the general population.

      As a result, HIV infection is an increasingly complex chronic disease associated with
      numerous medical, psychological, and social problems that require the attention and
      experience of a wide range of health specialists.

      Information and communications technologies are a strategic element in improving health and
      ensuring a quality, modern, and sustainable health system. The development of mobile devices
      such as smartphones and tablets has shown how mobile applications (apps) have revolutionized
      health care (medical apps). Information and communications technologies could prove very
      useful in the care of patients with chronic conditions, such as diabetes, obesity, and
      cardiovascular disease. They could also play a role in the prevention of comorbid conditions.

      Considering that HIV infection is a chronic disease, our objective was to determine the
      usefulness of an app designed specifically for HIV-infected patients aged ≥60 years. To do
      so, we evaluated the usability of the application in this population and assessed changes in
      patient satisfaction with and quality of health care.

      Since we did not know how familiarized this population was with mobile apps, we set a dual
      main objective: 1) before the clinical trial, participants completed an 8-item survey to
      determine their interest in medical apps and thus determine appropriate sections of interest;
      2) to determine the usability of a specific app among HIV-infected patients aged ≥60 years by
      assessing, at week 24, the percentage of subjects randomized to the app who used the app on
      more than 10 different days after baseline. A final analysis was performed at week 48 to
      determine usability at the end of the study.

      The secondary objectives were as follows: 1) to identify the most frequently used items in
      the app by comparing the items used with those that the patients mentioned in a survey at
      week 48; 2) to compare the number of visits to the HIV Unit in each group (app and controls);
      3) to compare patient satisfaction in the app group by means of an ad hoc test ranging from 1
      (worst) to 5 (best) between baseline and week 48; 4) to compare the groups by assessing
      adherence (SERAD), quality of life (MOS), and a series of clinical parameters at week 48.
    
  