
    
      Mounting evidence shows that burnout, a critical metric for dissatisfaction and distress, is
      a growing problem within medicine. Burnout is a syndrome associated with worse physician
      performance, patient outcomes, and hospital economics.The quadruple aim of healthcare
      underscores that physician fulfillment is a critical part of any sustainable reform and
      appropriately frames physician burnout and fulfillment as issues that impact everyone, not
      just individual providers.

      Burnout is believed to arise from a mismatch between expectations and reality, with more than
      half of practicing physicians and trainees reported to suffer from this problem. Among
      general surgery residents, the prevalence of burnout is estimated at 69% and dramatically
      increases the odds of both overwhelming stress and distress symptoms. The relationship
      between overwhelming stress and burnout is particularly concerning because extensive evidence
      links overwhelming stress to detrimental effects on learning, memory, decision-making, and
      performance.

      A recent meta-analysis suggests that stress management/mindfulness interventions are
      particularly effective at addressing burnout on the individual level. Small cohort studies
      and controlled trials have shown mindfulness-based interventions to be effective at reducing
      stress and burnout in medical students, primary care physicians, internists, and other
      healthcare providers.

      In general surgery trainees, inherent mindfulness tendencies (shown to increase following
      mindfulness training), decrease the risk of burnout, overwhelming stress, and distress
      symptoms by 75% or more. This suggests that mindfulness tendencies may already be used,
      albeit unconsciously, to cope within the high-stress culture of surgery. Indeed, isolated
      studies of performance strategies that involve emotional regulation, and focused attention
      (qualities shared with mindfulness training) have also demonstrated improvements in surgeons'
      technical performance and perceived stress.

      Mindfulness meditation training involves the cultivation of moment-to-moment awareness of
      thoughts, emotions and sensations (also known as interoception), the development of
      non-reactivity in response to stimuli (also known as emotional regulation), and the
      enhancement of perspective-taking regarding oneself and others. The most scientifically
      studied form of mindfulness training is the secular Mindfulness-Based Stress Reduction (MBSR)
      developed by Jon Kabat-Zinn in the 1970s. MBSR is formally trained through an eight-week
      codified curriculum and has been shown to decrease stress and burnout, protect executive
      function, and enhance performance in multiple high-stress populations.

      In spite of such evidence, mindfulness training among surgeons has only occasionally been
      suggested or informally pursued, partly due to a disconnect between the indefatigable
      stoicism of surgery and mindfulness, which is often perceived as relaxation rather than a
      skill to enhance resilience. Moreover, the time pressures of surgical training make
      additional responsibilities and new curricula seem impossible.

      In fact, the global effects of mindfulness training, as opposed to other interventions that
      target a single outcome, may prove to be its biggest asset. Individuals don't manifest the
      effects of overwhelming stress and burnout in identical ways, making an up-stream
      intervention with myriad downstream effects the most efficient method for intervening on
      large, diverse populations. Moreover, while other forms of skills training or mental health
      interventions require recurrent time away from work, mindfulness training involves an initial
      investment of time but then can be strengthened through practice in everyday settings -
      within the daily life, not separate from it.

      To systematically examine the feasibility of formal mindfulness training during surgery
      internship at a tertiary academic center, we undertook the "Mindful Surgeon" pilot study. Our
      secondary goal is to gather preliminary evidence of efficacy, to guide future design of a
      scalable, adequately powered trial.
    
  