
    
      Background：Aspirin combined with P2Y12 receptor antagonist are the antithrombotic basis of
      percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for coronary heart disease. Guidelines at home and
      abroad recommend that patients with stable coronary heart disease need double antiplatelet
      therapy for 6 months, and patients with acute coronary syndrome need double antiplatelet
      therapy for 12 months to prevent stent thrombosis and reduce the risk of ischemic or
      atherosclerotic thrombosis events, including stent thrombosis, recurrent myocardial
      infarction and cardiogenic death. Aspirin can inhibit the activity of cyclooxygenase in
      gastrointestinal tract, causing gastrointestinal mucosal epithelial injury and bleeding. For
      patients with gastrointestinal diseases, the risk of bleeding is higher after taking aspirin
      for a long time. 48.7% of PCI patients suffered from bleeding in digestive tract, so it is
      very important to protect gastrointestinal mucosa. In the past, patients with coronary heart
      disease who were accompanied by gastrointestinal diseases and could not tolerate aspirin
      often delayed PCI or conservative treatment with drugs, and the prognosis was very poor. In
      the study of patients with coronary heart disease complicated with atrial fibrillation
      undergoing PCI, it is concluded that the bleeding rate in the clopidogrel combined with
      rivaroxaban group is lower and the curative effect is not inferior to that of triple
      antithrombotic regimen. Whether rivaroxaban can replace aspirin for coronary heart disease
      complicated with gastrointestinal diseases has no research evidence and no relevant
      guidelines.

      Methods:Patients who have been selected will be randomized to the clopidogrel combined with
      rivaroxaban arm versus the clopidogrel combined with aspirin arm. Patients selected in the
      clopidogrel combined with rivaroxaban arm will receive clopidogrel 75 mg once daily and
      rivaroxaban 10 mg once daily. Patients selected in the clopidogrel combined with aspirin arm
      will receive clopidogrel 75 mg once daily and aspirin 100 mg once daily. The therapy will
      last for at least six months in the both arms. The primary endpoints will be evaluated at
      six-months follow-up.
    
  