
    
      The present study seeks to develop and pilot a health insurance navigation program with
      childhood cancer survivors recruited from the Long-Term Follow-Up (LTFU) Cohort. Childhood
      cancer survivors tend to face health challenges throughout their lives that require
      monitoring and ongoing care. This is compounded by the tendency among childhood survivors to
      have higher rates of under and uninsurance, unmet healthcare need, and burdensome costs
      related to care.These burdensome costs also contribute to underutilization of care among
      survivors. Additionally, as health insurance systems and designs continue to evolve, many
      people have inadequate understandings of their own health insurance. Dr. Park and her
      colleagues published findings that suggested LTFU survivors had difficulty in understanding
      how to use their insurance, and often experienced financial-related distress. Survivors were
      more likely than their siblings to have borrowed money to pay for medical expenses, and only
      27.3% of survivors and 26.2% of their siblings reported familiarity with the ACA. Given these
      circumstances, understanding and navigating insurance benefits in the current in the current
      landscape is crucial for cancer survivors to obtain and utilize the health care that they
      need. With this in mind, the study investigators propose to develop and pilot an insurance
      navigation intervention with LTFU participants.

      The three institutions involved in this study have differing, complementary roles that will
      contribute to the development and piloting of a health insurance navigation intervention. As
      the lead site and IRB of record for this study, Massachusetts General Hospital (MGH) will be
      responsible for the development and regulation of all study-related materials. MGH will also
      be responsible for the delivery of the navigation intervention (which necessitates the
      training and supervision of the individual delivery the navigation).

      As a collaborating site for this study, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital will be
      responsible for all recruitment activities, as this study plans to recruit exclusively from
      the Long-Term Follow-Up Study (LTFU) Cohort.

      As a collaborating site for this study, the University of Utah will be responsible for all
      participant assessment during the study, which will include baseline and follow-up surveys,
      and exit interviews.

      Approximately 80 LTFU participants will be recruited for the randomized pilot trial portion
      of the study. Prospective participants for the pilot randomized trial portion of the study
      will be identified via LTFU records, and recruited and consented by LTFU study staff at St.
      Jude Children's Research Hospital. Prospective participants will receive an invitation to the
      study through email and mail. The proposed navigation intervention will be delivered by a
      health insurance navigator via HIPAA-compliant videoconferencing. Content of the navigation
      intervention will involve the following sessions: 1- Learning Abut Survivorship Healthcare
      Needs; 2- Learning About Your Plan in Relation to Policy; 3- Navigating One's Own Plan and
      Overcoming Obstacles; 4- Managing Care Costs. The sessions will be delivered to participants
      every week over a one to two-month period. Participants will be randomized into either the
      navigation intervention arm, or the enhanced usual care arm (approximately 40 per arm). The
      sample size of approximately 40 per arm was chosen to enable evaluation of feasibility and
      acceptability goals, as well as to explore meaningful differences in the outcomes.To assess
      the proposed primary and secondary outcomes, all trial participants will complete a baseline
      and 3-month post-program follow-up survey (approximately 5-month follow-up from baseline).
      The surveys will be conducted via RedCap or via mailed survey (which will then be input into
      the RedCap database by study staff). Intervention arm participants will also complete an exit
      interview in order to further refine the navigation intervention. Both study arm participants
      will receive a health insurance information guide.
    
  