
    
      There is a lack of consensus about whether or not a patient with an infected wound requires
      more than 2 surgical procedures. For patients admitted for an infected wound this study will
      investigate whether 2, compared with ≥3, operative interventions results in better outcomes.
      All patients admitted for an infected wound will be assessed for eligibility in the study. If
      eligible, subjects will be randomized into Cohort A (2 operative visits) or Cohort B (≥3
      operative visits). Subjects will then be followed during the hospitalization as well as 180
      days post discharge.

      A total of 250 subjects will be enrolled into this study. Two operations (n=125) will be
      compared with ≥3 operations (n=125) during the hospitalization. We will compare the following
      factors between the two treatment groups: length of hospital stay; readmission
      post-discharge; quality of life; proportion of wounds closed or covered with a graft; culture
      results; host factors; environmental factors post-hospital discharge; and, financial charges
      related to admission and readmission. We expect full enrollment to take 3 years in duration.

      Debridement of the wound will be performed in the customary manner per SOC in the operating
      room. Prior to the start of the study, the surgeons performing the operations will be
      required to view a video that demonstrates the standardized debridement technique that will
      be utilized. The following is the standardized technique depicted in the video:

      All wound surfaces will be painted with dye prior to debridement. Debridement involves the
      use of a scalpel, scissors, curette, rongeur, or hydro-surgery. A 2-3 millimeter skin edge
      around the perimeter of the wound will also be resected. All infected/nonviable tissue will
      be removed and all tissues with dye will be surgically removed. This includes decompression
      of any purulent material and excision of any indurated tissue (until tissue pliability is
      established). Nonviable tissue includes necrotic and fibrous tissue. Debridement will be
      performed until the there is bleeding on the wound base and perimeter.
    
  