
    
      The aim of the proposed study is to investigate the effectiveness of an interactive, virtual
      reality (VR) training program for pilots compared with standard care. The proposed
      intervention program includes training in neck range of motion, control, accuracy and
      coordination and is expected to reduce the prevalence and operational impact of neck pain in
      the intervention group more effectively than does standard care alone.

      The proposed study will be designed as a randomized, controlled trial (RCT). Sixty fighter
      and helicopter pilots will be randomized into two groups, to receive either standard
      physiotherapy and medical care or standard care with the addition of interactive, dynamic,
      controlled training (a self-exercise program) in VR to address the fast, accurate head
      control required in flying tasks.

      Subjective outcome measures will include pain intensity and global perceived effect.
      Objective measures will include range of motion, motion velocity and accuracy. The functional
      measure will include days grounded due to neck pain.

      Statistical analysis will use independent, repeated measures ANOVA on each parameter, within
      and between groups. Post hoc comparisons, including several preplanned contrasts, will be
      performed to assess differences before and after treatment, and the stability of changes over
      time, in each group. The relationship of risk factors to performance failures will be
      assessed using multivariate logistic regression analyses.

      This study is the first in the Israeli Air Force to evaluate this type of comprehensive,
      functional intervention program. Such research will dramatically advance the military's
      health care approach to neck pain, and may be further applied to other populations in and
      outside the Israeli Defence Force (IDF). This study may serve as a stepping stone to further
      research related to diagnosis, treatment, and prevention methods during a pilot's active
      service.
    
  