
    
      Participants receiving Posaconazole prophylaxis for invasive fungal infection while
      undergoing cancer treatment will be required to sign an informed consent and donate blood
      samples for the study. Posaconazole is routinely administered as a prophylaxis using the oral
      tablet formulation (300mg once daily) as a standard care. Each prophylaxis course-duration
      will be defined according to local policy at each hospital. In general, Posaconazole
      prophylaxis commences prior to or with induction or consolidation chemotherapy in AML/MDS
      patients and continues until neutrophil recovery. In allo-HSCT setting, Posaconazole
      prophylaxis routinely commences on the day of transplant or with conditioning chemotherapy
      and continues for approximately 3 months after transplant, except in patients with initiation
      of intensive immunosuppression after diagnosis of acute or chronic GVHD, administration will
      go for at least 16 weeks or until prednisolone dose is less than 10mg per day, whichever is
      later. If patients are suspected or have proven malabsorption or are required to switch to an
      alternative antifungal agent such as in the case of suspected invasive fungal infection or
      Posaconazole toxicity, a switch to intravenous formulation of Posaconazole will take place.

      Blood samples will be collected on Days 7, 14 and 21 from the onset of Posaconazole
      prophylactic treatment. If significant diarrhoea occurs, additional blood samples will be
      collected twice weekly until symptoms resolve, with the first sample being taken 3 days after
      the onset of diarrhoea. If gastrointestinal absorption is considered inadequate or invasive
      fungal infection is suspected and patients are switched either to IV antifungal prophylaxis
      or antifungal treatment as part of their standard care, a blood sample will be collected
      20-24 hours after the last oral Posaconazole dose. Study participants will be followed up
      with respect to clinical data collection during the blood sample collection period and for up
      to 7 days after the last dose of Posaconazole for invasive fungal infection follow-up, and
      for the entire antifungal prescribing period (prophylaxis and/or treatment). Participants
      with diagnosed invasive fungal infection will be followed up to 30-days post-diagnosis with
      respect to clinical outcomes.
    
  