
    
      This monocentric and prospective observational study aims to include patients with stable
      coronary artery disease and undergoing TAVI for severe aortic stenosis via transfemoral
      access, from November 2020 at Nantes University Hospital, France.

      All patients have severe symptomatic aortic stenosis, secondary to degenerative disease
      confirmed by transthoracic echocardiography (mean gradient >40 mmHg and/or valve area <1 cm2)
      and significant epicardial coronary stenosis (> or = 50%) assessed by coronarography
      performed in systematic preoperative work-up. These patients are deemed for TAVI and a
      first-line medical treatment for CAD, after heart team decision.

      The collegially chosen strategy to manage CAD in this population consists in assessing
      hemodynamic parameters from a coronary stenosis during the TAVI procedure, using functionals
      tests for ischemia (FFR, IMR, CFR) from a concomitant coronarography. Patients will be
      routinely admitted in hospital 6 months after TAVI, for clinical and echocardiographic
      reassessment, and coronarography control. Functional tests will be repeated and according to
      results, continuation of medical therapy or PCI is proposed, at operator's discretion.

      All procedures are performed within the same site by 1 medical team including 4
      interventional cardiologists.

      Before the TAVI procedure, a computerized multi-sliced tomography is systematically performed
      to validate the percutaneous approach by femoral access and to choose which prothesis model
      will be used.

      In most cases, TAVI procedure are performed under local anesthesia and mild sedation, under
      anesthetist supervision.

      The common femoral artery is punctured by percutaneous approach, above the femoral
      bifurcation and a 16-French sheath is inserted.

      Three available models of aortic bioprothesis are implanted in our center, the Sapien 3
      (EDWARDS Lifescience) the Corevalve Evolute R (Metdtronik) and the Accurate Neo 2 (Boston
      Scientific) Two Perclose ProGlide devices (Abbott Vascular) are used to perform the
      perpendicular preclosing. After the deployment of the prosthesis, the TAVI sheath is removed
      and the nodes from the two previously placed ProGlide devices are tightened. Final femoral
      angiographic control is not systematic.

      Concomitant coronarography is performed by radial artery access site, using a 6-French
      sheath.

      Hemodynamics measures are recorded by PressureWire X Guidewire (Abott Vascular) wireless
      devices to a computer and processed by the CoroFlow Coroventis software (Abbott Vascular) to
      carry out multimodal physiological evaluation. FFR, CFR, and IMR measures will be repeated
      before and immediately after valve implantation. These parameters will be reassessed 6 months
      after TAVI.
    
  