
    
      Kidney dysfunction is an independent predictor of mortality in both adults and children with
      severe malaria. In the largest studies of paediatric severe malaria, approximately 25% of
      children had kidney dysfunction and these patients accounted for roughly 50% of total deaths.

      Although the multifactorial mechanism of severe malaria-associated AKI has primarily been
      studied in adults, evidence suggests that similar mechanisms of renal injury are involved in
      paediatric severe malaria. Cell-free haemoglobin (CFH) -mediated oxidative damage has
      recently been recognized as an important pathway in a range of common conditions, including
      rhabdomyolysis, primary pulmonary graft dysfunction, and haemolytic disorders, such as
      post-cardiac surgery, and malaria. During malaria infection, there is haemolysis of
      parasitized and uninfected red blood cells (RBCs). CFH-mediated lipid peroxidation generates
      F2-isoprostanes (F2-IsoPs) and isofurans (IsoFs), which are considered robust in vivo
      measures of oxidative stress. F2-IsoPs are potent renal vasoconstrictors that act via
      thromboxane A2 receptors. Both F2-IsoPs and IsoFs have been associated with AKI in patients
      with rhabdomyolysis, sepsis, adults with severe malaria and haemolysis post-cardiopulmonary
      bypass (CPB). Further, elevated haemin and CFH concentrations were associated with mortality.
      In a cohort of children with severe malaria, elevated haem-to-haemopexin ratio was associated
      with stage 3 AKI, and 6-month mortality. These studies demonstrate that intravascular
      haemolysis occurs with increasing severity in paediatric malaria. Haem redox cycling between
      ferric (Fe3+) and ferryl (Fe4+) states generates globin radicals, inducing lipid
      peroxidation. These data suggested that haemolysis induces oxidative damage, and CFH-mediated
      oxidative damage contributes to AKI complicating paediatric malaria.

      A novel mechanism of paracetamol was recently demonstrated, showing that paracetamol acts as
      a potent inhibitor of haemoprotein-catalyzed lipid peroxidation, by reducing ferryl haem to
      its less toxic ferric state and quenching globin radicals. We hypothesize that this novel
      inhibitory mechanism of paracetamol may provide renal protection in children with severe
      malaria by reducing the haemoprotein-induced lipid peroxidation. As there is currently no
      consensus that exists concerning adequate medical treatment for severe malaria complicated by
      intravascular haemolysis and AKI, the potential application of this safe and extensively used
      drug would be of great benefit.

      The study will be a randomised, open-labelled, controlled trial. Randomisation will be
      stratified into two groups : (i) Patients with no acute kidney injury (AKI) at enrolment, and
      (ii) Patients with AKI at enrolment. Both groups will be randomised into two arms: Arm 1:
      Paracetamol 15 mg/kg/dose 6 hourly for 72 hours Arm 2: Mechanical antipyresis if fever in the
      first 72 hours. All patients will receive intravenous artesunate followed by
      artemether-lumefantrine as soon as they are able to take oral medication or according to
      medical judgment.

      The study will be conducted at the Kinshasa Medical Oxford Research Unit (KIMORU, Democratic
      Republic of the Congo, DRC). The recruitment phase of the study is expected to last 18
      months, from March 2020 - June 2021. The total time to complete the study will be
      approximately 3 years.
    
  