
    
      This is a Phase II randomized, open-label study to evaluate the efficacy of extracorporeal
      photopheresis (ECP) versus IVMP on disability progression in subjects with SPMS. At the
      initial screening visit, an extensive medical history will be obtained and a detailed
      neurological examination will be performed to determine eligibility. Subjects who meet
      eligibility criteria will be enrolled in one of two study arms. Subjects will be randomized
      at a 1:1 ratio to receive ECP (study arm) or active treatment with intravenous
      methylprednisolone pulses (control arm) administered every 4 Weeks (1 gram per infusion) for
      52 weeks.

      ECP will be administered according to the following schedule:

      Study Arm: Weeks 1-8: 3 times per week Weeks 9-16: Twice per week Weeks 17-36: Treatment on
      two consecutive days every 2 weeks (or optionally, one treatment per week) Weeks 37-43: Once
      every 2 weeks Weeks 44-52: Once every 4 Weeks

      All subjects, including patients who receive corticosteroids, will be evaluated using the
      MSFC tool at baseline and every 3 months through 2 years. They will also be scored using the
      EDSS at baseline and every 3 months through 2 years. Subjects in the control arm will be
      evaluated by MSFC and EDSS during the week prior to their next intravenous methylprednisolone
      infusion and every three months from baseline through two year mark. Blood will be collected
      for immune function (cytokines) testing at baseline, and months 3, 6, 9 and 12. MRI will be
      done at baseline as well as months 6 and 12 following initiation of treatment; if the
      disability measurements are stable or improved at any point in time, then ECP will be
      continued per protocol..

      Patients in the ECP arm should have all of their treatments with the CELLEX ® System.
      Patients randomized to the ECP arm must receive their treatment within 5 days of baseline
      visit.

      In the ECP process, UVADEX ® (methoxsalen) Sterile Solution will be injected directly the
      recirculation bag of the extracorporeal circuit after completion of the buffy coat
      collection. The dose of UVADEX® (methoxsalen) Sterile Solution will be calculated based on
      the standard treatment volume formula.
    
  