
    
      Accommodation is an action that enables projections of both distant and near objects to be
      brought into clear focus on the retina through changing of diopteric power of crystalline
      lens. Although the exact mechanism of accommodation remains inconclusive, most authors agree
      that contraction of ciliary muscle plays a pivotal role.1, 2 Recently, accumulating evidence
      shows that the effect of ciliary muscle contraction goes beyond merely changing the curvature
      of the crystalline lens.3 Ciliary muscle contraction might be responsible for a transient
      elongation in axial length during the accommodation response.3 Contraction of ciliary smooth
      muscle applied an inward pulling force on the choroid and sclera adjacent to the ciliary body
      and cause protrusion at posterior sclera.

      If ciliary muscle contraction can elicit protrusion at posterior sclera, it is conceivable
      that some changes in corneal shape would also occur as the cornea is adjacent to ciliary
      muscle. The influence of accommodation on the cornea has therefore been the subject of
      several studies with conflicting results. Some authors reported no change4, 5, while others
      described significant change in corneal curvature during accommodation6-9. Yasuda and
      Yamaguchi9 found central corneal steepening of approximately 0.10 D, using pharmacologically
      induced ciliary muscle contraction and corneal topography analysis. Saitoh et al10 reported
      that instillation of a sympathomimetic agent to stimulate mydriasis induces significant
      flattening of both anterior and posterior cornea curvatures as detected by Orbscan . On the
      contrary, Buehren5 and Read4 argue that changes in corneal topography is a result of
      excyclotorsional eye movement during accommodation. When this excyclotorsional eye movement
      was accounted for in their data analysis, no significant change in corneal topography was
      found with accommodation. The effect of ciliary relaxation on the cornea curvature, however,
      was less well delineated.

      In this study, we employed Visante-OCT (Carl ZeiIn this study, we employed Visante-OCT (Carl
      Zeiss, USA), an anterior chamber optical coherence tomography, to monitor the change of
      anterior chamber dimensions. These data were correlated to anterior and posterior curvature
      changes collected with the Oculus Pentacam (Oculus Inc., Germany), a corneal topographer
      based on rotating Scheimpflug principle. To minimize the effect of convergence and
      excyclotorsion during examination, topical cycloplegic medication was used. We hypothesized
      that if there is a link between ciliary muscle contraction and cornea curvature, installation
      of cycloplegic should result in widening of anterior chamber angle to angle distance and
      flattening of the cornea curvature data.

      ss, USA), an anterior chamber optical coherence tomography, to monitor the change of anterior
      chamber dimensions. These data were correlated to anterior and posterior curvature changes
      collected with the Oculus Pentacam (Oculus Inc., Germany), a corneal topographer based on
      rotating Scheimpflug principle. To minimize the effect of convergence and excyclotorsion
      during examination, topical cycloplegic medication was used. We hypothesized that if there is
      a link between ciliary muscle contraction and cornea curvature, installation of cycloplegic
      should result in widening of anterior chamber angle to angle distance and flattening of the
      cornea curvature data.

      In addition, we would also compare the accuracy in pupil diameter measurements between
      Pentacam and Visante OCT under under normal and mydratic conditions.
    
  