
    
      Method The current study was conducted through a randomized control trial (RCT), upon
      approval from the Regional Ethical Committee in Linköping, Dnr 2014/371-31. The study context
      was an MGT, initiated in 2013 and originated from a hospital serving approximately 149,000
      inhabitants in Southern Sweden.

      Participants The inclusion criteria for this trial were the "frail elderly" defined as:
      community-dwelling persons aged > 75 years, having more than three chronic diagnoses and
      prescribed six or more pharmaceutical drugs for continuous use and with at least three
      hospital stays (> 24 hours in hospital) during the last six months. Since these criteria were
      broad in order to capture relevant individuals, but also likely to generate persons of no
      relevance to the MGT intervention, identification of the study sample was conducted in three
      steps, in turn, repeated in three waves.

      In the first step, a nurse with special training in identifying populations by filtered
      searches in digital patient records identified 449 individuals in an initial search (March
      2015). Another 75 individuals were identified in a second search wave (May 2015) and another
      157 individuals in a third search wave (September 2015).

      In the second step, a nurse with geriatric competence checked the patient records of all
      individuals. Deceased persons or persons who had moved to a nursing home since the initial
      search were excluded. Patients with repeated hospital admissions due to surgery (without
      multi-morbidity) or patients admitted for palliative care were also excluded from the sample.
      Thirdly and finally for all waves, a nurse with clinical experience of MGT re-evaluated each
      of the previous searches in order to exclude individuals that the MGT would not consider for
      inclusion, since they were likely to not benefit from the MGT measures.

      The final recruitment of participants from the above-described filtering resulted in 66
      potential participants from the first search, 34 from the second search and 41 from the third
      search. These were randomized, as shown in Figure 2, to an intervention group and a control
      group, comprising 31 participants each and an administrative control group, not contacted or
      followed in the present trial. The initial intention was only to observe the administrative
      control group data from health and social care registers, but for (the purpose of) the
      present study this was never done.

      The potential participants in control group were contacted via telephone and the aim of the
      study was communicated both orally and in writing before the study commenced. Persons sampled
      to the intervention group, were first informed on the intervention and made their decision on
      whether to take part in that or not, before being informed (orally and in writing) about the
      study. All persons who agreed to the MGT-intervention also gave their consent to be part of
      the study (intervention group). All participants were given the chance to ask questions
      before their informed consent.

      Intervention The intervention started with a home visit. During the first visit, a
      comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) (Ellis et al., 2011) was conducted, together with a
      pharmaceutical review. Based on this, a person-centered and coordinated as well as
      (hopefully) sustainable care plan was developed by the MGT, in collaboration with the
      patient, his/her relatives and the homecare staff. Overall medical responsibility for the
      patient was temporarily transferred to the MGT physician from primary care during the
      intervention period. The initial intention was for this to last for 15 weeks but based on
      early experience the time limit was removed, since it was considered inadequate to break the
      continuity, and since the primary care units would have problems keeping the same level of
      continuity of service. Thus, the MGT "retained" the patient as long as was considered
      necessary. The result of this change was that the enrollment from the MGT was not withdrawn
      unless the participant moved to a nursing home, re-gained stable health, or died, and, in
      individual cases, at the patient's request. If patients required palliative care, the MGT
      remained responsible but consulted an already-existing external palliative team when
      necessary. After the initial visit, patients were free to contact the MGT during office hours
      (08.00-17.00) and were referred to home care or hospital outside these hours. Additional
      visits from nurses, physicians or the whole team were often scheduled on regular basis, but
      were also possible to arrange at short notice, i.e. on the same day.

      Fully operative and in full-time equivalents, the MGT team comprised 1.95 physicians and 3.2
      nurses during 2016. They cared for a stock of around 95-100 patients, matching their
      capacity. Based on presumed discharges, they had the capacity to register an estimated 200
      patients annually. The team had access to external equipment, for example, cars and mobile
      electronic patient records with updated lists of medication and all other information about
      the patient in the in-hospital patient records. The dictation of measures was performed via
      laptops. The main costs of the MGT initiative comprise personnel and, in total, this amounts
      to around Swedish Krona (SEK) 3.7 million annually (around 430,000 United States Dollars
      based on an exchange rate of 8.56 SEK, provided by the Swedish Central Bank for 2016),
      including salaries, payroll taxes and social charges. Hence, the average annual personnel
      cost per patient year is around SEK 37,000 SEK (or SEK 18,500 per estimated new annual
      registration in fully functional mode). To put this in perspective, the cost of traditional
      care has been calculated by the county council at, for example, SEK 6,500 for inpatient
      geriatric care days and SEK 1,600 SEK Emergency Room (EMR) visits. Hence, the MGT initiative
      must have apparent effects on traditional health care utilization in order to reach economic
      break-even and be self-financed.

      Taking the estimated capacity of taking care of up to 200 patients annually literally implies
      that the traditional care consumption of the average MGT patient has to be reduced annually
      by about 2.85 care days or 11.6 EMR visits (or a combination of both) in order to reach
      break-even and be self-financed.

      Instruments and variables Data collection was conducted retrospectively via comprehensive
      county council and municipal administrative registers covering all inhabitants regarding
      healthcare consumption, home care and home help given to participants as shown in Table 1.

      Healthcare consumption was measured via the number of EMR visits, number of hospital
      admissions, number of days admitted to hospital, outpatient visits to hospital. Primary care
      consumption was measured via number of visits to a) physicians and b) nurses. Note that care
      given by, and contact with, the MGT team were not included in any of these measurements.
      Moreover, participants were contacted and, during a home visit, data on performance in
      Activities in Daily Living (ADL) (bathing, dressing/undressing, toileting, transfers,
      continence, eating) were collected through the Katz ADL index (Brorsson & Hulter Åsberg,
      1984). In this index, ADL is measured along a seven-point scale (i.e. 1=independent in all
      activities, 2=dependent in one activity, 3=dependent in bathing and one additional activity,
      4=dependent in bathing, dressing/undressing and one additional activity, 5=dependent in
      bathing, dressing/undressing, toileting and one additional activity, 6=dependent in bathing,
      dressing/undressing, toileting, transfers and one toileting activity, 7=dependent in all six
      activities. Moreover, cognitive function was screened using Mini-Mental State Examination
      (MMSE), ranging from 0-30 points (Folstein, Robins, & Helzer, 1983).

      Both groups were interviewed following a structured guide that covered subjective health,
      subjective safety and security, and their experiences of care given by hospital units or
      primary units, as well as home help and home care. At inclusion, participants and relatives
      in the intervention group were asked for their expectations of the coming measures from MGT.
      Questions regarding experiences of the performed measures were asked and documented 15 weeks
      later. All face-to-face data collections were done by the project manager (first author) or
      an (the same) research assistant (RN).

      Analysis Variation in healthcare utilization pre- and post the MGT intervention was compared
      for the control and intervention group, respectively, as well as between groups pre- and
      post-intervention via two-sample Wilcoxon rank-sum (Mann-Whitney) tests. In order to discern
      whether the MGT treatment had any causal effects on healthcare utilization, the data were
      assessed via a difference-in-difference (DiD) analysis, in which the change in utilization
      following the introduction of MGT in the treatment group was compared to the corresponding
      development of the unaffected control group during the same time frame. The DiD analysis is
      estimated via linear regression and the reported significance values obtained using robust
      standard errors.

      The qualitative interviews were transcribed verbatim. Meaning units were identified,
      condensed and coded. Codes were abstracted into two categories based on similarities and
      given content-describing names.
    
  