
    
      Tooth movement with appliances based on nickel and titanium has got great osteogenic
      potential and can regenerate deficient parts of alveolar bone and gingiva and rehabilitate
      compromised occlusal relations and a patient's masticatory function. Due to the extended
      duration of this therapy, different procedures are carried out and materials are applied for
      prevention and regeneration of damaged enamel and oral mucosa. The oral cavity may be
      considered a galvanic cell in which dental alloys act as electrodes, while saliva and oral
      preventive and regenerative agents act as electrolites. The interaction causes corrosion,
      reduction of elasticity and increase of stiffness of appliances, which may in turn result in
      excessive forces, a disruption of tissue regeneration and irreparable damage of tooth roots,
      surrounding alveolar bone, periodontal ligament, gingiva and pulp.

      During the extended exposion, released corrosive products in surrounding tissues and those
      transported in saliva and blood may cause a series of side effects from hypersensitivity
      reactions and soft tissue proliferation to cyto and genotoxicity. Today, allergies are ever
      more frequent and arise earlier in life. A specific group are children and young adolescents
      in pubertal growth, a period in which the immune system develops. Nickel is one of the
      strongest contact allergens, present in numerous dental alloys. Nickel allergy is occurs in
      up to 28.5% of population and cannot be deemed as low potential risk anymore.

      In contrast, titan was considered a biocompatible material of no allergic potential. However,
      there is an increase in the frequency of presentations of different hypersensitivity
      reactions to titan, especially in patients with pacemakers. Numerous patients with hip
      endoprostheses, stents, dental implans and orthodontic appliances are exposed to titan. Titan
      allergy may be the cause of unexplained cases of failure and rejection of dental implants.
      Nickel and titan could cause bacterial resistance to antibiotics which may complicate
      treatment of a series of infections that are more frequent in children and adolescents.

      Regulations for safety of medical products regulate safety issues of materials through
      mandatory laboratory testing and expertise. However, the testing of interactions of these
      materials with newly formed materials for prevention of damage and regeneration of orodental
      tissues is not obligatory prior to the start of their commercial use. Such testing should be
      conducted by independent scientific insitutions and not by producers with direct commercial
      interest.

      The aim of this project is to investigate:

        1. the corrosion of dental materials and appliances based on nickel and titan (in saliva
           and due to interaction with probiotics, remineralising agents and antiseptics)

        2. the immune potential of nickel and titan ions (development of allergies, changes in
           cariogenic potential of dental plaque, resistency of gingivitis to therapy, and
           bacterial resistance to antibiotics)

        3. the effect of nickel and titan ions cellular level

        4. changes in performance of dental appliances with repercussion on regeneration of bone
           and periodontal tissues.
    
  