
    
      Studies have confirmed the ability of dasatinib to inhibit numerous kinases (76 of 148
      kinases tested in one series).13 Overexpression or dysregulation of a number of kinases have
      been implicated in the pathophysiology of MM and could serve as potential targets for
      inhibition by dasatinib.

      Fibroblast growth factor 3 (FGFR3), which is not normally expressed in plasma cells, is
      aberrantly expressed in 15 % of multiple myeloma patients. Its expression results from the
      translocation t4;14.14 Dasatinib weakly inhibits FGFR3.13

      Another target for inhibition in multiple myeloma is the epidermal growth factor receptor
      family, particularly ErbB4. In vitro, ErbB4 was expressed in 4 of 9 myeloma cell lines, and a
      panErbB inhibitor induces apoptosis in myeloma cell lines.15 Dasatinib has been shown to have
      moderate affinity for ErbB4.13

      Members of the src family of protein-tyrosine kinases are also potential targets for therapy
      in multiple myeloma. Hematopoietic cell kinase (Hck) is a src family member whose expression
      is restricted to hematopoietic cells of the myeloid and B-lymphoid lineages. Hck mediates
      IL-6 induced proliferative signals, which are potent growth and survival factors in multiple
      myeloma.16 Lyn and Fyn are two additional src family protein-tyrosine kinases that may serve
      as targets for therapy in myeloma. Lyn is strongly expressed in myeloma cell lines, while Fyn
      expression is variable. Activation of Lyn and Fyn appears requisite to IL-6-induced
      proliferation.17 Selective inhibition of Lyn in vitro suppresses IL-6 induced
      proliferation.18 Dasatinib has high affinity for both Fyn and Lyn, and inhibition may reduce
      IL-6 induced proliferation.13

      The receptor tyrosine kinase c-kit is overexpressed in one-third of cases of multiple
      myeloma. 19 Inhibition of c-kit with imatinib results in inhibition of proliferation in
      vitro.20 Unfortunately, in a phase II clinical study of imatinib in relapsed/refractory
      myeloma, there were no responses.21 However, dasatinib binds c-kit with greater avidity than
      does imatinib.13

      Myeloma cells are heterogeneous in their biological characteristics, such as their
      proliferative response to IL-6, as well as their immunophenotypes, including CD45 expression.
      The promiscuous nature of kinase inhibition by dasatinib may tolerate small changes in the
      kinase and remain able to inhibit mutant kinases.

      In addition to potential antimyeloma effects of dasatinib, there are potentially additional
      benefits. Src plays an essential role in osteoclast function and bone resorption.22 As a Src
      inhibitor, dasatinib inhibits bone resorption in vitro. 11 Src inhibition by dasatinib in
      patients with multiple myeloma could produce beneficial effects on bone density.

      We propose a single-arm, phase II, open-label study of dasatinib in patients with relapsed or
      plateau-phase multiple myeloma.
    
  