
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the safety and tolerability and recommended phase 2 dose (RP2D) of nedisertib
      (M3814) in combination with hypofractionated radiation and avelumab in patients with
      advanced/metastatic solid tumors. (Phase I) II. To determine the efficacy of the combination
      of hypofractionated radiation, M3814, and avelumab as compared to the combination of
      hypofractionated radiation and avelumab in patients with advanced/metastatic hepatobiliary
      tumors by objective response rate (ORR) in non-irradiated lesions. (Phase II)

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To observe and record anti-tumor activity. (Phase I) II. To characterize the
      pharmacokinetic (PK) profile of M3814 in combination with avelumab. (Phase I) III. To
      determine the efficacy and safety of the combination of hypofractionated radiation, M3814,
      and avelumab as compared to hypofractionated radiation and avelumab by measurement of disease
      control rate (DCR), duration of response (DOR), progression free survival (PFS), PFS outside
      the irradiated field, and overall survival (OS) in patients with advanced/metastatic
      hepatobiliary tumors. (Phase II) IV. To determine if baseline deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)
      repair defects inherent to some cholangiocarcinomas correlate with a more dramatic response
      to radiation compared to those without as measured by gamma H2AX phosphorylated (p)NBS1
      multiplex immunofluorescence (IFA) assay. (Phase II) V. To characterize the pharmacokinetic
      (PK) profiles of M3814 and avelumab. (Phase II)

      EXPLORATORY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To perform molecular profiling assays on malignant and normal tissues, including, but not
      limited to, whole exome sequencing (WES), ribonucleic acid (RNA) sequencing (RNAseq), mass
      cytometry (CyTOF), multiplexed ion beam imaging (MIBI), and T cell receptor sequencing in
      order to:

      Ia. To determine if baseline tumor mutation burden and pattern, and neoantigen burden
      correlate with response.

      Ib. To determine if combination therapy results in changes in the immune landscape in both
      the tumor and the host that correlate with response.

      Ic. To determine if baseline defects in deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) damage repair in some
      cholangiocarcinomas correlate with an increased response.

      OUTLINE: This is a phase I, dose-escalation study of nedisertib followed by a phase II study.

      PHASE I:

      Patients with advanced/metastatic malignant solid tumors undergo 5 fractions of
      hypofractionated radiation therapy (RT) every other day (QOD) on days -17 to -7. Patients
      also receive nedisertib orally (PO) twice daily (BID) on days 1-28, and avelumab
      intravenously (IV) over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      PHASE II: Patients advanced/metastatic cholangiocarcinoma/gallbladder cancer are randomized
      to 1 of 2 arms.

      ARM A: Patients undergo 5 fractions of hypofractionated RT QOD on days -17 to -7. Patients
      also receive avelumab IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the
      absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM B: Patients undergo 5 fractions of hypofractionated RT QOD on days -17 to -7. Patients
      also receive nedisertib PO BID on days 1-28, and avelumab IV over 60 minutes on days 1 and
      15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable
      toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up at 30 days, every 6 months for
      2 years, then annually thereafter.
    
  