
    
      In the current pilot study the aim is to assess the feasibility and effect of SKY in NHS
      health care workers with possible Covid related stress and anxiety disorder. Study
      participants are staff members of Doncaster and Bassetlaw Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust who
      may be affected Covid related stress and anxiety disorder.

      This is a paperless study with all the information including participant information, consent
      forms and link to questionnaires sent via the trust e-mail.

      Information about the study would be advertised via trust intranet, trust facebook page, and
      through flyers across various sites within the trust. Potential participants who are
      interested to know more information would be encouraged to contact the research team on
      dbth.sky.yoga@nhs.net by using their trust email.

      They would then be sent a generalised anxiety disorder (GAD-7) questionnaire to answer via
      e-mail and they would be eligible to participate if their GAD-7 score is ≥5 which implies
      they have mild or more sever form of anxiety disorder.

      They would then be sent an invitation letter, participant information leaflet and consent
      form via e-mail. They would also be provided an opportunity to talk to a research team member
      via telephone. They would be enrolled into the study after receipt of their consent via
      e-mail and they will be provided with a unique identifier number (which would be used for the
      rest of the study). Participants receive online tutorial on breathing based meditation (SKY)
      for about 4-5 hours spread over 3 sessions using Zoom platform from an 'Art of Living'
      certified yoga teacher. They are subsequently encouraged to practice this technique for about
      20 mins a day. They are also offered an optional online group session lasting 20mins, 4 days
      a week for the first 6 weeks and subsequently once a week for the duration of the study.

      They are sent a link, to their trust email, to access questionnaire about their symptoms and
      health which they will need to answer at onset, 6 weeks, 3 months and at conclusion of the
      study (6 months). They will need to provide personal information about their medical
      condition and their medications at the time of enrolment. On completion of the study results
      would be analysed and final outcome presented. Study findings would be disseminated in
      medical fraternity by presentation in medical conference and publication in a peer reviewed
      journal.
    
  