
    
      Significance: The USPHSTF, SAMHSA, CDC, and NIAAA have affirmed the importance of screening
      in medical settings for alcohol consumption that exceeds the NIAAA low risk limits, brief
      educational and motivational counseling for those who screen positive or have other evidence
      of an Alcohol Use Disorder, and, when appropriate, referral to treatment (SBIRT). However,
      translation to clinical practice continues to be elusive. Polaris Health Directions (Small
      Business) and the University of Massachusetts Medical School (Research Institute) have
      partnered to solve this problem by creating the Remote Brief Intervention and Referral to
      Treatment service for alcohol (R-BIRT), a telehealth service for delivering evidence based
      alcohol brief interventions and referral to treatment during a medical encounter in a
      cost-effective, sustainable way.

      Investigators: The investigators have extensive expertise in SBIRT for alcohol (Boudreaux,
      Bernstein); telehealth (Boudreaux); development, testing, and marketing of behavioral
      intervention technologies (Boudreaux, Harralson); comparative effectiveness trial design and
      analysis (Barton); and health economics (Sachs). Combined, the team has over 100 publications
      related to SBIRT and constituent technology domains.

      Innovation: This Phase 2 STTR will pioneer telehealth delivery of SBIRT for alcohol. It will
      be flexible enough for a variety of medical settings, and will develop and expand software
      capable of facilitating both telehealth and in-person SBIRT delivery models. It will further
      innovate SBIRT research and clinical practice by exploring mechanisms of action, an objective
      rarely incorporated into SBIRT studies.

      Approach: The design is a two arm, single blind (outcomes assessor), randomized,
      non-inferiority trial. Emergency department (ED) patients (n=356) who drink above the NIAAA
      low risk limits or have evidence of an Alcohol Use Disorder will be randomized to the
      telehealth model (R-BIRT) or a gold-standard in-person intervention (SBIRT) and followed for
      6 months post-visit using a multi-method outcomes attainment plan. The study will establish
      the non-inferiority of the telehealth model compared to the in-person model in reducing
      alcohol use and alcohol related consequences, while showing that the telehealth model is the
      more cost effective of the two. Mechanisms of action, including patient knowledge of low risk
      drinking limits, motivation, self-efficacy, substance abuse treatment initiation, and
      self-help program engagement, will be examined.

      Environment: With the success of the R-BIRT Phase 1 and other relevant projects, including
      previous large scale Phase 2 STTR clinical trials, Polaris and UMass have clearly established
      their capability of successfully carrying out this study, disseminating its results, and
      marketing the final product.

      Impact: Because alcohol misuse, abuse, and dependence carries an enormous burden in both
      human suffering and healthcare costs, a strategy that provides high quality, evidence based
      care in a manner that is more cost effective and easier than existing models has potential to
      exert a substantial impact on public health.
    
  