
    
      Osteogenesis imperfecta (OI) is a rare heterogeneous group of inherited disorders
      characterized by brittle bones, frequent fractures, and skeletal deformities that affect an
      individual's ability to walk. Based on Sillence classification, there are four types of OI;
      Type I (mild, non-deforming), Type II (perinatal lethal), Type III (severely deforming), and
      Type IV (moderately deforming). Recently 3 types added type V, VI and type VII.

      Deformities of the long bones are common in patients with osteogenesis imperfecta
      particularly in the lower limbs Where they are also more severe. Multiple fractures can occur
      and the ability to walk may be compromised.

      The goal of orthopaedic surgery implies the correction of long bone bowing, rotational
      malalignment, angular deformity and prevention or reduction of the fracture incidence
      .Surgical intervention in the form of multiple osteotomies, realignment and fixation by
      intramedullary rods can correct deformity of the long bones and provides internal support
      enhancing the potential for standing and assisted or independent walking Sofield and Millar,
      Page and Mead popularized the operation of multiple osteotomies and fixation by
      intramedullary rods. In 1963 the baily dubow nail was first introduced The telescopic rodding
      and nailing have been developed in order to obtain a long lasting osteosynthesis in a growing
      long bone, thus, reducing the need of replacement. The evolution of telescoping rods for the
      treatment of fractures and deformity in children with diminished bone Quality has resulted in
      an approved and commercially available new single entry telescopic rod system, the Fassier
      Duval Telescopic IM System (FD-rod). The Fassier-Duval rod has advantage of avoiding knee and
      ankle arthrotomy in femur and tibia surgery. During this evolution, the complication rate and
      reoperation rate has decreased.

      In recent publications a high reoperation rate for proximal rod migration and a complication
      rate up to 40% because of rod migration, limited telescoping and joint protrusion was found.

      For some reasons FD nails do only need rotational stability for a few weeks till a bony
      fusion or osteotomy is healed.

      Technical solution for rotational stability of the nail as well as for locking of the nail in
      the proximal and distal epiphysis could be developed.
    
  