
    
      All patients will be recruited approximately 1 month before transplantation (before
      pre-transplant conditioning chemotherapy and pre-surgery evaluation) and followed-up to 1
      year post-transplantation. Thus, each subject will be followed-up for a 13-month period. At
      entry, a questionnaire will document socio-demographic data and pre-transplant clinical
      indicators such as age, gender, primary diagnosis, previous chemotherapy, previous
      transfusion, etc. During follow-up, case report forms (CRF) will allow prospective reporting
      of all variables pertaining to EBV serology, transplantation, blood product transfusion and
      EBV complication.

      EBV PCR and serology testing:

      This study is observational and will use the results of EBV PCR and EBV serology allowing our
      objectives to be achieved with considerable cost reduction. Time zero is when the patient
      receives his graft. Some tests are done before time zero (pre-transplant array of test
      including EBV serology). After time zero, in all sites, there is a follow-up treatment
      protocol including EBV PCR testing. Pre-transplant sera from recipients and donors are tested
      by standard methods for mmunoglobulin G (IgG) antibodies to the EBV capsid antigen (VCA), IgG
      antibodies to EBV early antigens (EA) and anticomplement antibodies to the EBV nuclear
      antigens (EBNA). EBV DNA testing is performed by quantitative polymerase chain reaction
      (PCR). Each centre has an established threshold value for determining viral load. In order to
      properly interpret the patients' viral load data from each participating center, all will be
      required to fill out a site report form (SRF) to describe their testing method for EBV PCR
      and EBV serology.

      Pre-transplant measurement of EBV antibodies:

      Serology testing, including EBV seroprevalence, is always done in all participating sites
      during the pre-transplant evaluation (before conditioning chemotherapy) in both donors and
      recipients. Serology testing is the test that is used to confirm the presence of the virus in
      the blood. For grafts provided by external sites, donor blood samples are always available
      and will allow for serology testing at the laboratory center where the transplantation is
      performed. Serology testing will not be done on cord-blood donor as it is virtually always
      negative for EBV. Donors and recipients will be classified according to their pre-transplant
      serology status as: 1) having past infection (VCA and EBNA IgG titers > 10), 2) having recent
      infection or being immune suppressed (VCA IgG titers > 10 and EBNA IgG titers < 10), 3)
      having reactivated infection (VCA, EBNA and EA IgG titers > 10), or 4) being naïve (no
      serological sign of prior infection).

      Post-transplant EBV DNA PCR testing:

      HSCT recipients are closely followed for EBV infection in the post-transplant period.
      Although most of the blood product transfusions occur during the peri-transplant period, it
      is possible that patients receive blood products at a later time post-transplantation.
      Follow-up on EBV PCR results and complications related to EBV will therefore continue up to
      one year post-transplant (or time of death). This time window will allow documentation of the
      entire clinical trajectory of HSCT. Protocols for follow-up after transplant, and for the
      diagnosis and treatment of EBV disease in allogeneic graft recipients have been reviewed in
      all participating sites. The incidence of EBV infection in recipients is measured by
      quantitative real-time PCR testing performed AT MINIMUM every 1-2 weeks from the time of
      transplant until hospital discharge (which is usually around 6 weeks post-transplantation).
      After hospital discharge, EBV PCR monitoring is performed at every clinical follow-up visit:
      AT LEAST twice per month for approximately 4-6 months post-transplant or as long as the
      patient remains immune suppressed. Thereafter, approximately one EBV PCR per month is
      performed until 1-year post-transplant.

      In sum, the incidence of EBV infection will be adequately measured during a 1-year follow-up
      period. In all sites, AT LEAST 1 EBV PCR test is done per 1-2 weeks during hospitalization, 2
      EBV PCR tests per month from hospital discharge to 6 months post-transplantation and
      approximately 1 EBV PCR test per month from 6 months to 12 months. The total number of EBV
      PCR results that will be collected per patient for the entire follow-up will be approximately
      18. These results will be retrieved from patient charts.

      PTLD and other complications related to EBV:

      Clinical outcomes such as high and increasing viral load EBV infection and PTLD will be
      routinely screened until one year post-transplant. PTLD diagnosis will be made according to
      WHO criteria (Swerdlow et al, 2008) based on clinical or radiologic signs coexisting with an
      EBV-positive PCR on blood specimens. Information related to PTLD will be collected in the
      case report form. All other complications possibly related to EBV (for example:
      hemophagocytic syndrome, hepatitis, etc.) will also be documented. An adjudicating committee
      (C. Buteau and C Alfieri) will review patient-specific data elements to confirm PTLD and
      other complications related to EBV.

      Transfused blood products:

      Data on all blood products transfused will be collected and will include descriptors of the
      blood product unit (type of blood product, number of units, length of storage, etc.), volume
      transfused (milliliters), duration of the transfusion, as well as the date and time of each
      transfusion. Total volume received of every blood products will be considered in our analysis
      as well as the number of transfusions.

      A site report form (SRF) will also be filled by each participating center to document its
      transfusion protocol such as the type of blood products used for HSCT, leukoreduction, type
      of red blood cells (RBCs) (washed, irradiated, CMV negative, etc.), type of plasma (fresh
      frozen plasma, frozen plasma, solvent detergent plasma), type of platelet concentrates
      (apheresis, pooled, etc,), maximum length of storage (days), etc.

      Determining the source of EBV in severe EBV infections:

      In order to demonstrate definitively that virus from transfused blood products can be linked
      to severe complications such as high and increasing viral load EBV infection/PTLD, we will
      genotype the EBV strain from these patients. Blood units administered to these patients will
      be traced back to the donors who in turn (with consent) will be serologically assessed for
      EBV, and all seropositive donors will have their EBV strain genotyped for comparison to the
      patient's strain. Many blood donors per case will have to be traced as recipients receive
      blood products from many blood donors (1 unit of RBC is provided by 1 donor, 1 unit of plasma
      is provided by 1 donor and 1 unit of platelet is provided by 4 donors). In average, we
      expected that about 25 donors will have to be traced per case (estimated with pilot data;
      Trottier et al, 2012). We are used in tracing blood donors of graft recipients as reported in
      Alfieri et al. (1996).

      Brief procedure for EBV genotyping :

      10 ml of blood (2 ml for infected pediatric patients) is separated by density centrifugation
      on Ficoll-hypaque gradients. The mononuclear cell fraction is harvested, washed and cultured
      in the presence of cyclosporine so as to allow outgrowth of the donor's EBV-positive cells
      and establishment of an immortalized EBV-positive B cell line. The viral DNA within this line
      can then be amplified by PCR using primers from the BamHI-K region of the EBV-genome, which
      is known to be highly polymorphic among the various EBV strains. The different sized
      fragments of the amplified region can be distinguished by migration on an agarose gel
      (Alfieri et al, 1996). In order to verify our results for identity between patients and blood
      donors we will also employ the EBNA-typing technique which is performed by western blot
      analysis using a defined EBNA-positive serum (Alfieri et al, 1996).
    
  