
    
      After 9 qualified organizations have been identified among applicants, investigators will
      randomize proposed Mobile Market (MM) sites (33 total across all partner organizations), to
      an intervention (Mobile Market program implementation) or comparison condition (extended
      planning). Randomization will be stratified within each organization so that each
      organization will have 2 intervention and 2 comparison sites. One organization will have 5
      sites. The 5th site will allow for more thorough testing of protocol procedures. This ensures
      that study groups will be balanced at the organizational level. The condition for which each
      proposed MM location was selected will be communicated at the time of award. Organizations
      will communicate to intervention sites that they want to open a MM at that location within
      the next year. Organizations will communicate to comparison sites that they want to work with
      them on a food systems planning process to determine if a MM program is the right fit for
      their location. At the end of the year-long planning process with comparison sites, the
      organization and proposed MM site will decide together how to proceed (start a MM, apply for
      grant funding for a different project; etc.).

      Both arms will undergo community engagement efforts that serve to both identify potential
      research participants and engage them in the planning for a MM. Intervention sites will work
      with a community advisory committee to develop an engagement plan to raise community
      awareness of the forthcoming MM.

      Comparison sites will work with a community advisory committee to engage community members in
      a food access planning process.

      Both intervention and comparison sites will distribute interest forms as part of the
      community engagement process.Research staff will identify from the interest forms those
      interested in participating in the study. Consent will be obtained via phone. Phone surveys
      and in-person data collection will then be completed.

        -  Baseline and 12 month Follow-Up Survey will include dietary-related psychosocial
           measures These surveys will be administered over the phone.

        -  The main individual-level outcome, change in Fruits and Veggies (F&V) intake at 12
           months, will be measured through four 24-hour recalls (2 at baseline and 2 at 12 months)
           which will be administered over the phone by trained interviewers. One recall at each
           time point will be from a weekday and the other from a weekend day. Recalls will be
           collected using the Nutrition Data Systems for Research (NDSR) computer-based software
           application. A participant will receive The Food Amounts Booklet via mail after the
           baseline survey to have as a visual reference for the 24-hour recalls.

        -  In addition to survey data, body mass index (BMI) and dermal carotenoids will be
           measured at in-person data collection events at baseline and 12 months.

      Market (Intervention Sites) will implement a Mobile Market, weekly, for at least 10 months
      that will follow the Veggie Van model that includes 3 research supported components:

        -  "Share" model: Similar to community supported agriculture, this model selects fresh,
           high quality produce available from local farmers, creates "shares" of 5-8 types of
           produce, and delivers to community sites once per week. Customers can also choose to
           purchase individual produce items; however, based on focus group discussions with
           customers, it is believed that the share model is a key factor in increasing consumption
           of a larger quantity and variety of Fruits and Veggies. It also contributes to program
           sustainability by allowing Mobile Markets to better predict their sales and reduce
           waste.

        -  Incentives: Prices for a Veggie Van model vary slightly by market location. In some
           communities, only one reduced price (i.e., lower than market value) is offered. In other
           communities, where customers are of mixed socioeconomic status, partners offer shares on
           a sliding scale. Customers can use their ebt card, credit/debit, cash or check to
           purchase produce shares. To support the subsidized cost of produce for low-income
           residents, the Veggie Van model offers a full-cost box delivery service to workplaces
           and schools. However, other communities may be able to take advantage of incentive
           programs (such as Double Up Food Bucks) to offer reduced costs to those eligible.

        -  Educational Component: The Veggie Van model has a curriculum that consists of monthly
           themes (e.g., Eating in Season, Healthy Snacks, MyPlate, Reducing Sugar) and weekly
           lessons which build upon those themes. The lessons are designed to be delivered at the
           Mobile Market while customers are on line waiting to make a purchase. Accompanying
           newsletters help reinforce lesson plans and also include information about storing and
           preparing the produce items in the box that week. Newsletters include seasonal recipes
           and when possible, cooking demonstrations of these recipes or taste tests of featured
           produce items are offered at the Mobile Market Partner site.
    
  