
    
      Study Design A prospective study design will be utilized as data will be collected in a
      prospective manner and standard of care/current practice will be unaltered in the patient
      population.

      Sampling will include all patients that meet the eligibility criteria from March 01, 2011
      until August 01, 2011 with a goal of forty-five patients.

      Data Collection Protocol

        1. The patient will be interviewed and given information regarding participation in the
           study by Principal Investigator and/or research team prior to surgery. Informed Consent
           Forms will be collected by Principal Investigator and/or research team. Principal
           Investigator and/or research team will collect all data on Data Collection Sheet.

        2. Thoracic epidural will be placed by the anesthesiologist in pre-op per standard
           protocol.

             -  Location of epidural will be documented by Principal Investigator and/or research
                team on Data Collection Sheet. (See Appendix 1)

        3. Prior to surgery, if indicated, an indwelling urinary bladder catheter will be placed
           per pre-operative protocol.

        4. Post-operative documentation of time, type and settings for epidural infusion will be
           documented on Data Collection Sheet.

        5. Post-op eligible patients admitted to cardiothoracic step-down unit will be placed on
           the following protocol:

             -  Thoracic Epidural will be managed by the anesthesia group.

                  -  Any change in prescription or dosing will be documented on the Data Collection
                     Sheet.

             -  If urinary catheter present, will be discontinued at midnight day of surgery, Day
                Zero; the time of discontinuation will be noted on the Data Collection Sheet.

                  -  If micturition occurs, amount and time will be documented on Data Collection
                     Sheet.

                  -  If no spontaneous void by 0800 post-operative day (POD) 1, bladder scanning
                     will be initiated.

                  -  If ≥ 400 cc per bladder scanner, the thoracic surgeon, surgeon's nurse or the
                     Principal Investigator will not notified.

             -  Any ordered interventions, the response and re- evaluation will be noted on Data
                Collection Sheet.

                  -  Urinary retention will be defined as > 400 cc and recatheterization (either
                     intermittent or indwelling) will occur.

        6. Data will only be collected during current surgery hospitalization.
    
  