
    
      Cervical radiculopathy (CR) has been defined by the North American Spine Society (NASS) as
      pain in a radicular pattern in one or both upper extremities related to compression and/or
      irritation of one or more cervical nerve roots, with signs and symptoms including varying
      degrees of sensory, motor, and reflex changes in addition to dysaesthesia and paraesthesia
      (Bono et al. 2011). CR is of particular clinical concern, given the higher levels of pain and
      disability associated with the presence of nerve-related arm pain resulting in higher
      healthcare costs for this cohort of people with neck pain (Rubinstein et al., 2007, Haldeman
      et al., 2008).

      Multimodal physiotherapy involving manual therapy and exercise has demonstrated a positive
      effect on pain and disability for chronic (symptom duration > 3 months) CR (Boyles et al.,
      2011). No consensus on the optimum conservative management, or indeed optimal timing of such
      management, currently exists for acute / sub-acute cervical radiculopathy. The combined use
      of manual therapy with exercise for this cohort is now garnering interest; evident by the
      emergence of several randomised controlled trials (Nee et al., 2012, Langevin et al., 2015)
      involving treatment duration of 2-4 weeks. Langevin et al. (2015) demonstrated that using 2
      varied programmes of manual therapy & exercise, led to similarly clinically significant
      improvements in pain and disability, particularly immediately after a 4 week intervention.
      However, without a 'no treatment' control group, natural recovery could not be excluded,
      confirming the need for adequate control groups in future trials (Langevin et al., 2015). The
      most recent Cochrane review of exercise for the treatment of mechanical neck disorders (MND)
      (including CR) concluded that there was low quality evidence to suggest a small pain
      reduction benefit with cervical stretch / strengthening / stabilization exercises in the
      short term in acute cervical radiculopathy (Gross et al., 2015). They also advocated for
      larger sample sizes and longer follow-up periods in future trials.

      A randomised controlled trial of a 4 week course of a multimodal physiotherapy package
      (manual therapy (to spinal joints), exercise (mobility exercise, deep neck flexor and
      scapular muscle training), upper limb unloading tape (to offload the brachial plexus) and
      advice to stay active) for acute/sub-acute CR is proposed. As there is no strong evidence
      establishing best clinical practice for the conservative management of acute/sub-acute CR, a
      control group of advice to stay active and medication will be used.

      Aims & Objectives:

      The primary aim of this trial is to investigate the effects of a 4 week multimodal
      physiotherapy (MP) programme on neck and arm pain and resulting disability in CR, over 6
      months, with the primary endpoint at 4 weeks.

      Secondary objectives are:

        -  to investigate the effects of the MP programme on the following additional
           biopsychosocial outcome measures;

             -  Cervical range of motion

             -  Upper Limb Neurodynamic Test (ULNT) 1

             -  Pressure Pain Thresholds (PPT)

             -  Quality of Life

             -  Anxiety and Depression

             -  Fear Avoidance beliefs

             -  Patient rating of recovery

        -  to identify whether any of the above biopsychosocial outcome measures, as well as the
           PainDETECT at baseline, symptom duration and group allocation; can predict outcome at 3
           months, on the GROC scale.

      Hypothesis:

      A 4 week multimodal physiotherapy programme will lead to changes in self-reported disability
      and pain, compared to advice to stay active, for acute / sub-acute cervical radiculopathy.

      Research Design:

      An exploratory, assessor-blinded, randomised controlled trial is planned.

      Procedure:

      A consecutive sample of all new (non-urgent) patients with cervical radiculopathy referred by
      their general practitioner for neurosurgical assessment to Beaumont Hospital are being
      recruited.

      Eligibility assessment includes a neurological exam and manual exam of the cervical spine
      (C2-T2) to identify the nerve root level and to guide the treating physiotherapists for those
      participants subsequently assigned to the intervention group. If eligible and upon providing
      written consent, prior to baseline assessment and random group allocation, each participant
      will be asked by the PI about their beliefs regarding the likely effectiveness of
      physiotherapy, as well as their belief in the need for surgery. Participants will be randomly
      assigned to the intervention or control group by an independent academic colleague using a
      computer-generated list of random numbers with a random block size of 4, 6 or 8.

      Participants allocated to the control group will be advised to continue taking their
      prescribed or over the counter medication, as well as to stay active, by the treating
      physiotherapist. They will be telephoned weekly for 4 weeks.

      Participants allocated to the intervention group will attend the Physiotherapy Department of
      Beaumont Hospital or Collins Avenue Physiotherapy clinic for a 4 week programme of
      multi-modal physiotherapy involving advice, manual therapy, exercise and upper limb unloading
      tape, as decided by the treating physiotherapist from a best-practice physiotherapy treatment
      guide. Participants in the intervention group will be treated twice a week for 30 minutes
      each session and receive non-provocative manual therapy (all participants will receive
      lateral glide mobilisation (Vicenzino et al., 1999) to the mechanical interface of the
      radiculopathy and additional Maitland joint mobilisation to the segmental levels above or
      below (as far as T4) as deemed necessary by the treating physiotherapist based on their
      mobility assessment), exercise (all participants will receive deep neck flexor strengthening
      and scapular orientation exercise as deemed necessary by the treating physiotherapist based
      on their motor control assessment (Jull et al., 2008)) and cervical mobility exercises. Upper
      limb neural unloading tape will be applied at the end of the treatment session. The tape will
      run from the upper arm, over the top of the shoulder and across to the back of the neck and
      will unload the brachial plexus. Experienced senior physiotherapists with a master's degree
      in musculoskeletal physiotherapy (or equivalent) will provide the treatment programme.
      Treating physiotherapists will also record the participants' adherence with a home exercise
      programme by administering a weekly exercise adherence questionnaire to monitor the
      participant's home exercise frequency per week.

      Medication usage of participants in both groups will be monitored on a weekly basis.

      In the case of a significant adverse event (progressive neurological signs e.g. multilevel or
      bilateral radiculopathy, myotomal paresis < 4/5 on MRC scale; or emerging medical red flags
      or cervical spondylotic myelopathy) during the trial, an appropriate clinical pathway will be
      followed. The clinical change will be discussed with the neurosurgical registrar and
      requirement for a fast track clinical review will be determined. Minor adverse events will
      also be recorded during the trial.

      Participants from both groups will be assessed by the principal investigator at the end of
      treatment at 4 weeks and again at 12 weeks. Participants' report of pain and disability and
      their rating of recovery will also be recorded by telephone interview at 6 months. Baseline
      demographics will be recorded including co-morbidities, educational level, smoking status,
      occupation and work status and any change in to work status at subsequent assessment time
      points will be noted.

      Participants will be asked not to pursue other treatment during the trial, until after the 12
      week assessment. All other interventions received will be recorded at the 6 months telephone
      follow up.

      Sample size estimation:

      The NDI and the NPRS are the co-primary outcome measures for this study and sample size
      estimates were carried out for both outcome measures. An MCID for the NDI of 7 has been
      determined for cervical radiculopathy patients (Cleland et al., 2006). Using a reported NDI
      SD of 9.2 (Cleland et al., 2006) for this patient group, with a two-sided 5% significance
      level and a power of 80%, a sample size of 29 participants per group will be necessary. An
      MCID for the NPRS of 2 has been determined for mechanical neck pain, including cervical
      radiculopathy (Cleland et al., 2008) and a SD of 1.85 (Cleland et al., 2006). Using these
      figures, with a two-sided 5% significance level and a power of 80%, a sample size of 15 per
      group was calculated. The larger sample size per group calculated using the NDI was chosen
      and an additional 10% was added to account for anticipated dropout. In total, a sample size
      of 64 participants will be recruited.

      Pilot study:

      A pilot feasibility study will be undertaken, with the objectives of testing the recruitment
      strategy and retention rates of the study. The pilot study will mirror the protocol of the
      main study except the assessment time points will be limited to baseline and 4 weeks (at the
      end of treatment for the intervention group) and the pilot will run for 2 months or until the
      first 6 participants have reached their 4 week assessment.

      Criteria for assessing success of this feasibility study (Thabane et al., 2010) will be:

        -  6 participants can be recruited per month. To recruit the sample size estimate over a 12
           month period, more than 5 participants per month will need to be recruited.

        -  Complete follow-up is possible in at least 95% of all recruited participants.

      The pilot study will also identify if a difference in retention rates exists between groups,
      by following participants until the 4 week assessment point. Participants in the control
      group will also be asked how acceptable they would find continuing with medication and advice
      to stay active for a further 8 weeks, to assess the likelihood of dropout before the second
      and third assessment time points. Results from the pilot study will be included in the main
      study results if no further significant protocol changes are required after the pilot.

      A second recruitment pathway, via direct general practitioner (GP) referral from primary care
      commenced during the pilot in October 2015, as it was clear the initial recruitment strategy
      was inadequate. This pathway was approved by the Irish College of General Practitioners
      Research Ethics Committee in September 2015. Five physiotherapy treatment sites are now
      providing the intervention across the greater Dublin area. An additional private
      physiotherapy practice site was added in January 2016 and 3 further physiotherapy practice
      sites were added in September 2016, in order to roll out the trial across Dublin.

      Data analysis:

      Baseline demographic characteristics and all outcome measures will be described and presented
      for both groups following the CONSORT Statement. Data will be checked for normality using the
      Shapiro-Wilk test. Marginal effects will be used to calculate effect sizes for specified
      values for baseline differences between the 2 groups. Poisson regression will be used where
      data are non-parametric.

      Statistical analysis will include two-way (treatment x time) ANOVAs and MANOVAs for between
      and within-group differences and interactions. Intention to treat analysis will be the
      primary approach employed. A secondary per protocol analysis will also be undertaken.

      Secondary analysis to explore if any of the outcome measures or group allocation are
      predictors of outcome (GROC score at 3 months) will be performed using appropriate
      multivariable regression analysis.
    
  