
    
      STUDY OBJECTIVES

      Primary Question:

      To determine the effect of using MIRA falls prevention Exergames to improve balance in older
      adults.

      Secondary Question/Objectives:

        1. What features of usual falls prevention teams routines/activities need consideration for
           successful implementation of the strength and balance Exergame intervention?

        2. How can the Exergames be tailored for home use for older adults?

        3. What are the most effective outcome measurements to detect meaningful changes resulting
           from the MIRA Exergame programme?

        4. What are the current challenges and solutions to accessing robust data depicting costs
           of current therapy treatment compared to home-based MIRA Exergame treatment?

        5. Is it possible to retain participants in the intervention during the 12-week MIRA
           Exergame intervention with respect to outcomes including motivation, enjoyment and
           usability?

        6. What training and support needs are required to maximise the use of the MIRA Exergame
           technology?

        7. What are the costs of the MIRA Exergame intervention and how cost-effectiveness is the
           MIRA Exergame intervention compared with usual care.

        8. What are the effects on falls and fall-related use of health services during a 6-month
           follow up? STUDY DESIGN & PROTOCOL Participants This project is a cluster RCT study to
           test the effectiveness of undertaking MIRA Exergames in the sheltered home setting in
           addition to usual activities. A maximum of 12 sheltered housing units, with 108
           participants will be recruited to participate in the study. These will be split into the
           experimental group (6 sheltered housing units with n=54) and the control group (6
           sheltered housing units with n=54). These 2 groups will be based in 2 falls prevention
           teams in Manchester and a second site in Glasgow.

      Falls prevention team staff and other professionals will also be recruited into the study
      (n=20) to either give their professional insights and feedback on the usability of the
      exergames and/or help supervise the participants.

      Study Intervention Sheltered Housing facilities will be recruited via the Manchester and
      Glasgow Housing Associations to enable facilities of similar size and deprivation status to
      be identified. The sheltered housing facilities will be randomised into two groups: the
      Exergame/experimental group (n=6 sheltered housing units with 9 participants recruited in
      each); and the control group (n=6 sheltered housing units with 9 participants recruited in
      each). The participants in the control groups will be offered the Exergame intervention after
      the final 12-week measurements for ethical reasons. A pre-enrolment examination will be
      carried out by a trained research physiotherapist to assess each person's suitability to
      participate in the Kinect exergame programme, and also evaluate potential impact of the
      Exergames on various aspects of their physical health. Their GPs will also be notified.

      The eligible participants will be given a tailored, individualised [i.e. frequency and
      duration will be set according to each participant's baseline levels] Exergame programme
      incorporated into their normal routines plus usual falls prevention treatment (prescribed by
      the physiotherapists). The control group will be given usual falls prevention assessment,
      treatment and home exercises without the Exergames. The Exergame intervention will run for 12
      weeks to test the efficacy of the intervention. Outcome measures to be used during these 12
      weeks will include a series of standardised tests and questionnaires. Each participant will
      be aided in completing these measures. These assessments will take place 3 times: at
      baseline, 6 weeks, and at the end of the 12-week period.

      The intervention participants will be offered the use the Exergame intervention in a group
      setting and/or home setting according to their preferences (previously piloted in a small
      feasibility study). The physiotherapists and physiotherapist assistants will supervise and
      monitor their progress and will also have the ability to see the results of the Exergame
      programme (anonymised data on points gained, time used, range of motion) at the Falls
      Prevention Clinic for participants that consent to the sharing of this anonymised data.

      At the end of the 12 weeks, focus groups and interviews will be conducted to assess the
      therapists and participants' perspectives regarding the effectiveness of the remote MIRA
      Exergame programmes and their usability.
    
  