
    
      A sufficient number of generally healthy subjects (approximately 165) that meet the required
      inclusion/exclusion criteria will be enrolled in this 21 day, examiner-blind, single center,
      randomized, parallel-group controlled clinical trial to ensure that at least 150 subjects (50
      per treatment group) complete this study.

      At baseline, the prescreened subjects will present to the clinic site for baseline
      examinations (oral tissue assessment, gingivitis, bleeding and plaque assessments) having
      refrained from oral hygiene for at least 8 hours, but no more than 18 hours. After the
      baseline oral examinations, assessment of other inclusion/exclusion criteria qualifying
      subjects will be randomly assigned to one of three treatment groups. Immediately following
      this randomization, subjects will begin use of their assigned test product following the
      label instructions. If randomized to the control group, subjects will brush twice daily in
      their usual manner with an ADA accepted fluoride toothpaste and a soft bristled toothbrush
      followed by rinsing twice daily with a 5% hydroalcohol control rinse (W002194-221P). If
      randomized to an active treatment group; subjects will brush twice daily in their usual
      manner, followed by rinsing twice daily with their assigned mouth rinse formulation
      (19292-116A or 11965-059). Subjects will be instructed to follow label instructions 20ml for
      30 seconds twice daily for mouth rinse product. The first product use will be conducted under
      the supervision of study personnel. All other brushing and rinsing will be unsupervised and
      the subjects will be required to maintain a diary card to document twice daily product use,
      brushing and rinsing times. Compliance will be evaluated by weighing residual volumes of
      returned mouth rinse and by reviewing the subject diary. Subjects will receive an ADA-
      accepted fluoride-containing dentifrice and a soft bristled toothbrush at their baseline
      visit.

      Subjects may continue to use floss to remove impacted food between the teeth if it is part of
      their usual oral care regimen during the course of the study; no other oral hygiene
      procedures will be permitted, including teeth cleaning, whitening or dental procedures except
      for an emergency treatment. The decision to withdraw a subject due to emergency dental
      treatment will occur at the discretion of the Investigator.

      At baseline and three weeks (±2 days) visits, subject will not have brushed or have used
      their product for at least 8 hours, but no more than 18 hours.

      Oral tissue safety, Modified Gingival Index (MGI), Bleeding Index (BI), and Plaque Index (PI)
      will be assessed.
    
  