
    
      The detrimental impact of resin composite polymerization shrinkage on restoration interface
      quality and stability has been recognized since the early use of this material is still one
      of the major drawbacks in adhesive dentistry, as it frequently leads to loss of marginal
      integrity or enamel fracture. According to clinical studies, drawbacks such as postoperative
      sensitivity, marginal discoloration and possibly secondary caries are often associated with
      loss of marginal integrity in composite restorations occurred as a result of polymerization
      shrinkage. Various technological solutions were investigated, including improved filler
      technology; improved, novel matrix structure with reduced shrinkage; use of stress-decreasing
      compounds within the resin matrix; changes in light-initiation technology to increase curing
      depth; and use of sonic vibrations and energy to favor flow and adaptation of highly filled
      resin composite. To achieve optimal long term performance, the requirements will be first to
      manage polymerization stress buildup following restoration. Low-shrinking composites should
      help to avoid clinical problems that are commonly associated with composite restorations,
      such as post-operative sensitivity, enamel cracks, rapid discoloration and deterioration of
      restoration margins, early development of caries recurrence, with a new formula and improved
      sculptability SAREMCO has been successful in brilliantly further developing the leader
      product els extra low shrinkage. When using new simplified restorative systems featuring
      distinctive physicochemical characteristics, the potential impact of different parameters
      such as fatigue behavior and/or elastic modulus on restoration quality and behavior is
      unknown and justifies additional investigations. Instead of in vitro evaluations,
      consideration of a rather well-established clinical trials suggesting medium to long term
      observation periods to discriminately appraise the clinical performance of various operative
      protocols.

      The project includes 30 patients. Most of the patients have been recruited from the Istanbul
      Medipol University Dental Clinics in Istanbul. After giving their consent to take part in the
      study Class I & II restorations of both upper and lower molars and premolars are
      performed.The treatment procedure is: The patients are offered local anesthetic before
      treatment start. The cavity is excavated and filled according to the guidelines for composite
      restorations.

      The control procedure is:

      The restoration is evaluated according to marginal adaptation, cavo surface marginal
      discoloration, approximal contact, fractures, caries associated with restorations and
      postoperative hypersensitivity. The controls will take place after two weeks, one year, two
      years and three years.
    
  