
    
      The widespread development of organized breast cancer screening has enabled diagnosis of
      nonpalpable, small-size cancer lesions (infraclinical stage). When conservative breast
      surgery is scheduled (tumorectomy or zonectomy), preoperative localization of the lesion is
      mandatory. To date, wire localization of non-palpable lesions is the most frequently used
      technique worldwide.

      Nevertheless, this technique presents a number of drawbacks:

        -  it is very uncomfortable for the patient. The wire is implanted transcutaneously,
           crosses the skin to reach the lesion and then protrudes outside the breast, thus
           limiting the patient's mobility and giving rise to discomfort and even pain during
           movement.

        -  furthermore, and for the same above-mention reasons, there is a risk of the wire
           becoming dislodged, breaking or being disinserted during patient movements (transfer
           between units, pre-op shower, installation in the operating room), thus jeopardizing the
           quality of the planned surgery by increasing the risk of unhealthy resection margins or
           even of non-removal of the tumor. Cases have even been reported of intrapulmonary wire
           migration.

        -  in order to lessen these risks, the wire must be placed as late as possible before
           transfer to the surgical wing (the previous day at the earliest). Consequently,
           organizing the patient's transfer, particularly in the event of outpatient surgery (less
           than 12h at the hospital) becomes complicated and requires coordination between the
           different units in charge of preoperative management (radiology, nuclear medicine,
           admittance, and operating room) and early inclusion of these patients in the operating
           room schedule or postponement of surgery in the event of migration or displacement of
           the wire. These various constraints can result in a reduction of the number of patients
           able to benefit from outpatient management, as demonstrated by Dravet et al. Several
           alternative techniques have been put forward in order to overcome these difficulties,
           including radioguided seed localization (RSL), which consists in implanting a sealed
           source of radioactive iodine125 (iodine seed) inside the tumor to provide a preoperative
           marker which can be monitored by the surgeon using a gamma probe. The RSL technique is
           currently used in Europe (Netherlands), Canada and the USA.

      This technique appears to offer several advantages:

        -  It is a simple radiologic technique performed under ultrasound or stereotaxic control,
           allowing accurate localization of the lesion with no risk of the marker moving or being
           displaced,

        -  It requires no special training for surgeons already skilled in the use of gamma probes
           in the sentinel node technique,

        -  It allows concomitant, interference-free performance of sentinel node surgery by means
           of a gamma probe able to detect specifically Tc99m and/or Iodine 125,

        -  It is free of organizational localization constraints limiting access to outpatient
           surgery, which ranks as a high priority for our governing bodies (50% of all surgeries
           will be performed on an outpatient basis by 2016). As the half-life of iodine seeds is
           60 days, it should be possible, in theory, to insert them several days, or even several
           months, before surgery. In this way, patient transfer is simplified and the turnover of
           the operating block for outpatient management can be increased. Moreover, this
           localization method could also be used for tumorectomies following neoadjuvant
           chemotherapy,

        -  It presents none of the drawbacks related to patient mobility. Patient comfort is
           enhanced and the patient is able to move freely, with fewer risks of displacement or
           disinsertion, and less pain, etc.

        -  Patient satisfaction is higher among those women who have undergone iodine seed
           localization as opposed to the conventional localization techniques

      Furthermore, various studies have demonstrated the safety of this technique in terms of
      radiation protection as radiation is minimal to the patient (equivalent to the amount
      received from two mammography views) as well as to the staff. Its reliability regarding the
      surgical excision procedure (positive or inadequate margin rates, revision surgery rates) has
      been demonstrated in 3 randomized studies with a high level of evidence.

      Thus, in 2001, Gray et al. published the first randomized study comparing the RSL technique
      with the conventional wire method and showed the superiority of iodine seed localization in
      terms of positive margin and surgical revision rates (RSL 26% vs WL 26%, p=0.02) with no
      concomitant increase in tumorectomy specimen volumes or marker migration rates. More
      recently, Lovrics et al. (2011) and Bloomquist et al (2015) published randomized
      non-inferiority studies highlighting the equivalent results between these two techniques
      regarding the quality of tumor excision (positive margins rates in: RSL 15.1% vs WL 19%
      p=0.389, and in: RSL 19.4% vs 15.3%, p=0.53). In addition, the RSL method showed a
      significant advantage regarding operating times and pain experienced by patients during the
      localization procedure.

      No French team has investigated this localization method on account of legal constraints.
      Nonetheless, it would appear that the wire localization technique does not satisfy surgical
      teams since another pre-operative localization technique involving injection of Tc99m into
      contact with the tumor has been developed over the past few years to replace the wire method.
      This procedure has met with little success, and has been gradually abandoned. Unfortunately,
      injecting Tc99m around the tumor renders the surgical procedure less precise or necessitates
      resecting a large segment of the gland with potentially damaging esthetic repercussions.
      Implantation of a sealed radioactive source such as an iodine seed helps mitigate this
      drawback.

      This study project aims to evaluate the feasibility and safety of using 1 grain of iodine for
      localization purposes by means of a randomized comparative study comparing wire localization
      with iodine seed localization in patients presenting an in situ, biopsy-proven, non-palpable
      invasive or ductal breast carcinoma requiring conservative surgical management associated, or
      not, with an axillary procedure (SN removal or axillary curettage).
    
  