
    
      The survey instrument will be a validated structured survey questionnaire. The content
      validity of the structured questionnaire will be reported in terms of validity index (CVI),
      using ratings of item relevance by content experts.1 The content validation of identified
      items will be executed by the online Delphi method. Initially first round of Delphi survey of
      contentment validation will be carried out to achieve a consensus of 80% agreement among the
      identified panel of 10 experts in the field of neonatology will be consulted during the
      content validation in each round. If not achieved in first round, second round of Delphi
      survey of contentment validation will be carried out to achieve a consensus of 80% agreement
      among the identified panel of 10 experts. As more than 10 experts were deemed to be
      unnecessary, we will not include more than panel of 10 experts in each Delphi survey. The
      survey instrument will be created on an online survey platform (Survey Monkey). It was
      evaluated for both face and content validity by the investigators and approved by the
      experts. The survey will be pilot tested on a group of neonatologists and pediatricians
      before distribution. The survey will be administered electronically via email along with
      instructions and a hyperlink to the survey. The participants will be notified of the
      voluntary nature of participation, confidentiality and non-compensation for participation.
      Lists of email addresses of neonatologists and neonatal practitioners were assembled by
      liaising with the Neonatology Chapter of Indian Academy of Pediatrics (IAP Neochap). The
      invitation will be sent to the 800 neonatologists and pediatricians nationwide in India. To
      encourage response rates, an additional survey reminder will be emailed 1 week later.Each
      question will be validated and reported in term of I-CVI. The overall validation of proposed
      scale with item pool will be reported with S-CVI after the end of each Delphi method of scale
      validation. S-CVI will be computed by both approaches, universal agreement calculation method
      (S-CVI/UA) and averaging calculation method (S-CVI/Ave).Lynn recommended that minimum I-CVI
      of 0.78, in case of 6 to 10 experts and overall the scale should an SCVI/Ave of 0.90 or
      higher for considered to have excellent content validity.
    
  