
    
      Atrial fibrillation (AF) is the most common sustained arrhythmia, associated with an
      increased risk of stroke, heart failure, and mortality. Despite the high prevalence, AF may
      be asymptomatic and consequently unrecognized. Detection of asymptomatic AF is challenging as
      only a minority of the patients is diagnosed during standard examinations with a 12 - lead
      ECG or a 24h ECG Holter monitoring. Furthermore, prolonged ECG monitoring is costly and can
      be inconvenient for the patients. Documented AF causes 15% of ischemic strokes. However,
      approximately 25% of ischemic strokes is of an unknown etiology. It is believed that
      undetected asymptomatic AF is responsible for some of these strokes.

      Plasmatic biomarkers might be of importance in the early diagnosis of AF. Several plasmatic
      biomarkers have been studied in order to find an association with AF. Cardiac biomarkers such
      as natriuretic peptides and high-sensitivity troponins are increased in patients with AF. A
      novel biomarker that is depending on left atrial stretching and ionotropic effects is apelin.
      In our previous research we discovered that apelin is associated with AF, negatively
      correlates with AF burden, but only in patients without reduced LVEF. Similarly, parameters
      reflecting thrombogenesis, such as Fibrinogen and fibrin D-dimer were also found to be
      associated with the arrhythmia. Other protein biomarkers have been studied in relation to AF
      incidence. Insulin-like growth factor-binding protein 1 (IGFBP-1) and Insulin-like growth
      factor 1 (IGF-1) have shown an association with higher risk of incident AF. Previous research
      also indicated Fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF-23) to be associated with AF.

      However, biomarkers, such as the inflammatory markers high-sensitivity CRP have shown
      conflicting results.

      Finally, in the last years, circulating microRNAs emerged as a promising biomarker of AF,
      having important function in suppression of messenger RNA responsible for electric and
      structural remodeling of the left atria.

      In our previous case-matched study we discovered that selected miRNAs were associated with
      paroxysmal AF.
    
  