
    
      Patient satisfaction is an important outcome in the evaluation and development of healthcare
      services. Studies have identified tools that successfully measure women's childbirth
      experiences, and have shown that multidimensional measures of women's satisfaction in labor
      and delivery provides a richer and diverse perspective on women's experiences of intrapartum
      care. Childbirth experience can have significant effects, both positive and negative, on
      women's immediate and long term health outcomes. Patients with negative experiences
      surrounding childbirth have been shown to have significant fear surrounding the labor and
      delivery experience that negatively impact subsequent deliveries. Often fear is worsened by a
      lack of knowledge of what to expect during labor. Women enrolled in this study will simulate
      some of the potentially stressful experiences that commonly occur during labor to determine
      if doing so decreases a woman's fear and anxiety about labor and delivery. Women in Centering
      Pregnancy groups will be approached and assigned to either the intervention or control arm by
      Centering Pregnancy group. Those in the intervention arm will participate in simulations in
      the following areas: 1) In-Utero Resuscitation Simulation: the process that may occur if a
      baby has a significant drop in heart rate during labor, 2) Cesarean Section Simulation: the
      process of moving from the labor bed to the transport stretcher and on to the operating room
      in the event that a laboring woman needs a cesarean delivery, 3) Pushing Simulation: the
      pushing process after a laboring woman becomes completely dilated. Those in the control arm
      will not receive this education. All patient will complete a modified Childbirth Experience
      Questionnaire the day after delivery. Responses will be compared between the woman that
      participated in the simulations to women who did not participate in simulations.
    
  