
    
      OBJECTIVE:

      Prior research has documented racial differences in sleep health by occupational class. While
      increasing professional responsibility has been associated with shorter sleep duration among
      non-Hispanic Blacks, increasing professional responsibility appears to be associated with a
      lower prevalence of short sleep duration among non-Hispanic Whites. The objective of the
      present study is to investigate reasons for these racial differences in the work-sleep
      relationship.

      STUDY POPULATION:

      The study population will consist of approximately 340 focus groups participants. All
      non-Hispanic black and white adults 25 years of age or older who are currently working at
      least 38 hours a week will be eligible for inclusion in the study. To mitigate the influence
      of known cultural differences in sleep behaviors, participation will be limited to English
      speakers born in the continental United Sates.

      DESIGN:

      We will conduct 34 demographically homogenous focus groups consisting of 7-12 participants
      each. Focus groups will be stratified based race, gender, and occupational class, and will be
      conducted in both North Carolina and the metropolitan DC area. Focus groups will take place
      in-person and be conducted by a trained facilitator according to a scripted, semi-structured
      focus group guide. Audio recordings of the focus groups will be transcribed verbatim by a
      professional transcription service. De-identified transcripts will be reviewed by the study
      team to identify qualitative themes in the data, which will be coded in an appropriate
      software program using a double-coding process. Qualitative data analysis will be conducted
      to identify potential reasons for racial differences in sleep health by occupational class.
      We will additionally assess variation by other sociodemographic determinants, including
      gender, education, income, and geographic region.

      OUTCOMES MEASURES:

      Outcome measures include the themes/patterns regarding potential system-level influences,
      beliefs, and behaviors that may explain racial differences in the association between
      occupational class and sleep health.
    
  