
    
      Recently, a prospective randomized intergroup trial of the European MCL Network has shown
      that a myeloablative radio-chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation
      (PBSCT) improves event-free survival (EFS) when compared to a interferon alpha maintenance
      therapy after a CHOP-like induction. However, the CR rate after the CHOP induction was still
      low (<20%). Thus, several studies have been conducted to increase the CR rate of induction
      therapy to further improve event-free and overall survival. Two recent phase II trials
      suggest that induction regimens containing high dose Ara-C may significantly improve the CR
      rate up to 80%. In addition, a number of studies provide evidence that the humanized
      anti-CD20 antibody Rituximab may induce significant responses in relapsed MCL. A prospective
      randomized study of the GLSG demonstrated that a combined immuno-chemotherapy (CHOP plus
      Rituximab) induces a significantly higher response rate than CHOP alone.

      The aim of this study is the comparison of the current standard (R-CHOP followed by
      myeloablative radio-chemotherapy and subsequent blood stem cell transplantation) to a new
      alternating induction regimen containing high dose Ara-C (R-CHOP/DHAP) followed by a high
      dose ARA-C containing myeloablative radio-chemotherapy and PBSCT.

      This study will be performed as a prospective, randomized, open-label multicenter phase III
      trial. All patients will be initial randomized for standard treatment versus experimental
      treatment.

      REFERENCE ARM:

      The induction therapy consists of 6 cycles of a CHOP chemotherapy in combination with
      Rituximab. If the mantle cell lymphoma is progressive after 4 cycles of chemotherapy,
      patients will be taken off study. Patients achieving at least a partial remission after 6
      cycles R-CHOP will proceed to intensified consolidation (Dexa-BEAM) with stem cell collection
      and subsequent myelo-ablative radio-chemotherapy (TBI/High Dose Cyclophosphamide) with
      autologous stem cells transplantation

      EXPERIMENTAL ARM:

      Initial cytoreductive chemotherapy comprises of alternating cycles of 3xCHOP and 3x DHAP plus
      Rituximab. Patients with progressive disease after 2 treatment cycles R-CHOP and 2x R-DHAP
      will be off study. Patients achieving at least a partial remission after 3x CHOP and 3x DHAP
      plus Rituximab will proceed to with stem cell collection. The subsequent myeloablative
      radio-chemotherapy with stem cell transplantation consists of a radiotherapy (TBI), high dose
      Ara-C and Melphalan.

      The primary end point in this study is the time to treatment failure. The time to treatment
      failure will be defined as time from start of initial therapy until first failure. A failure
      will be defined as failure of initial therapy or progression of the lymphoma or death of the
      patient.

      Using the data of the PBSCT group in the former European mantle cell study as baseline in a
      proportional hazard model, the improvement for the time to treatment failure expected by the
      new strategy can be expressed by reduction of relative risk (rr). A risk reduction to 52%
      which would correspond to a improvement of 20% in failure free survival after 3 years seems
      to be a clinical relevant improvement. For a working significance level alpha=0.05 and a
      power of 95% the number of events necessary for a one sided fixed sample trial is about 105.
      During this study the time to treatment failure will be monitored using an equivalent
      one-sided triangular sequential test.

      In order to evaluate the impact of therapy on overall survival in this patients, a total
      follow up of about 12 years for this study is expected.
    
  