
    
      Aims and hypothesis: The proposed RCT evaluates the efficacy of the aforementioned novel
      2-month online smoking cessation intervention in increasing 7-day point prevalence quit rate
      over a 6-month follow-up period among Chinese adult smokers in Hong Kong. It is hypothesized
      that the quit rate of the intervention group would be higher than that of the control group
      at 6 month follow up (i.e. one-sided hypothesis).

      Design and subjects: The RCT study will randomize participants into the intervention group or
      the control group. Prior to randomization, a baseline telephone survey will be conducted.
      Phone interviews will be conducted to evaluate the outcomes at Months 3 and 6 after
      completion of the intervention. Interviewers will be blinded from the randomization status.
      The inclusion criteria are: i) current smokers who have smoked at least one cigarette in the
      past seven days prior to the baseline survey, ii) age 18 years old or above, iii) able to
      communicate in Chinese (Cantonese), iv) having access to a smart phone or mobile electronic
      devices and social networking media (WeChat), v) willing to be followed up (Months 3 and 6),
      vi) should own a smart phone or a similar device.

      Study instruments: Structured questionnaires.

      Interventions: The 2-month intervention includes i) interactive online support groups and ii)
      immediate preventive 'SOS' cue to action messages to be sent to fellow support group members
      in need via WeChat. Besides, basic health education messages will be sent to both the
      intervention and the control groups.

      Main outcome measures: self-reported 7-day point prevalence (pp) quit rate of smokers at 6
      months post end-of-intervention.

      Data analysis and expected results: Baseline characteristics between the two groups will be
      compared using t-test and chi-square test as appropriate. To evaluate efficacy in terms of
      the primary outcome, absolute risk reduction (ARR), relative risk reduction (RRR) and number
      needed to treat (NNT) at Months 3 and 6 and their 95% confidence intervals will be derived.
      Mixed effects models will be used to compare the differential changes on the outcome
      variables across the time points Months 0, 3 and 6 between the two study arms with adjustment
      for potential confounding variables. Significance differences in smoking cessation will be
      found among the two groups.
    
  