
    
      We will evaluate the effect of real time clinical alerting on the time to response and the
      quality of the response to critical laboratory values. We define time to response as the time
      from acceptance of the laboratory value in the laboratory information system to the time that
      a physician's order is written in response to the laboratory value. In the absence of a timed
      physician order, we use the time of administration of treatment to estimate the time of
      response. We define the quality of response as whether the treatment was consistent with
      existing hospital policies and expert guidelines.

      This will be a prospective interrupted time series study.

      The setting is secondary-tertiary care inpatient general medicine units at academic teaching
      hospitals (Sunnybrook and UHN). The physician participants are staff physicians and medical
      residents in the Division of General Internal Medicine. The patient participants are general
      internal medicine inpatients with critical laboratory values. The intervention is an
      automated real time clinical alerting system that includes evidence based decision support
      and patient specific information about critical laboratory abnormalities. There are two
      primary outcome measures: (1) time to response, defined as the time from the critical
      laboratory abnormality to time of resolution of the critical laboratory abnormality, and (2)
      quality of response, defined as whether the response was concordant with existing evidence
      based protocols of care. Secondary outcome measures will be: length of stay, mortality, time
      to resolution of the abnormality, and frequency of recurrence of the abnormality. Other
      process measures will be: quality of response, time to resolution, and proportion resolved
      within 24 hours. Time to response is defined as time from the identification of the critical
      value in the laboratory to time of a physician order in response to the abnormality.

      There are two primary outcome measures: (1) time to response, defined as the time from the
      critical laboratory abnormality to time of a physian order in response to the critical
      laboratory abnormality, and (2) quality of response, defined as whether the response was
      concordant with existing evidence based protocols of care. Secondary outcome measures will
      be: length of stay, mortality, time to resolution and frequency of recurrence. Time to
      resolution is the time from the initial laboratory abnormality to the time that the
      abnormality resolves. Frequency of recurrence is the proportion of patients who develop a
      second episode of the same critical abnormality after resolution.
    
  