
    
      An electronic Foot Health Promoting Program (FHPP) will be tested with nurses using
      quasi-experimental study design.

      The participants will be assigned to experimental (N=130) and comparison (N=130) groups. The
      experimental group will receive an electronic intervention (Foot Health Promotion Program)
      for 8 weeks consisting of foot self-care guidance (skin and nail self-care), foot exercises,
      foot stretching and professional footwear guidance. Detailed components of the intervention
      will be produced on the bases of survey (part 1) results. The intervention (Figure 3) will be
      electronic via internet (Moodle platform) where a material package of foot health care will
      be delivered. Each participant will receive a user account to platform. The platform is
      divided into four main themes all related to foot health. Each theme consists of two topics
      of foot health. Each topic includes lectures (delivered via Adobe Presenter) and
      self-directed learning where participant will go through a list of links to websites (will be
      evaluated with certain criteria beforehand) and watch videos about foot self-care. In
      addition, the learning will be evaluated using four individual tasks related to foot
      self-care. By responding to task a participant will receive an example of the correct answer
      and using that he/she can evaluate own response and learn by that. Participants' use of
      different links (quantity) and their paths in the intervention platform will be calculated
      and analysed. The participants will be tested before the intervention (baseline) and one
      month (follow-up 1) and four (follow-up 2) months after the intervention. The primary outcome
      is foot health knowledge and secondary outcomes are foot health, musculoskeletal problems,
      work ability, health-related quality of life and work satisfaction. Hypothesis is: Increasing
      nurses' knowledge about foot health will improve their foot health and work ability. Ultimate
      goal is to develop tools for the occupational health care and improve the attention paid to
      feet as part of the work ability among nurses.
    
  