
    
      Participants will be recruited through community announcements in print advertisements,
      radio, and television. Inclusion and exclusion criteria will be highlighted in the
      advertising. Criteria will consist of: participants being (l) over 18 years old and under 60
      years and not suffering any severe psychological impairment, (2) not currently receiving
      treatment (psychological or medical) for their food cravings, (3) agree to be contacted for
      follow-up testing. Women and men will be included, and (4) active diagnoses from the SCID II
      and subjects taking 'heavy' psychotropic (see attached list) which can suppress feelings,
      cravings and sensitivity will be excluded.

      Known sufferers of diabetes (Type I and II) and hypoglycemia will be excluded due to any
      physiological aetiology (effects related) to food cravings.

      Eligible applicants will be offered participation in the study through an informed consent
      procedure. Self report questionnaires will be issued as part of the study and a demographic
      questionnaire will be included in this. All identifying information will be destroyed once
      data has been analysed.

      Unsuitable participants will be advised in letter form that they did not meet selection
      criteria, and a list of suitable practitioners will be included should they wish to address
      their food craving.The study will use a Research Assistant to screen participants, administer
      questionnaires and collate data. Separate qualified clinicians to the investigating
      researchers will be used to deliver the EFT treatment condition.

      The treatments will be delivered in a number of appropriate venues. Analysis will examine pre
      versus post effects for each intervention to highlight any differences in self report, and a
      repeated measures ANOVA will examine the effect of time on all the self report scores.

      The following questions will be addressed: does EFT reduce food cravings and weight more than
      no intervention? It is anticipated that because this is a pilot study, results may indicate
      positive direction for these questions only. Due to anecdotal suggestion that EFT has long
      lasting effects (see http://www.emofree.com/articles.aspx?id=19), it is hypothesised that
      food cravings will reduce significantly with the EFT intervention and remain consistent at
      follow-up points. It is expected that the waitlist condition will remain unaffected prior to
      any treatment condition. Increases in eating restraint and decreases in SUDS ratings and
      general psychopathology are expected with the EFT intervention post treatment and are
      expected to stay constant at 3-, 6- and 12-month follow-up. Gender and age will be examined.

      A standard process will be used for informed consent, including a general information sheet
      for subjects and consent form indicating any areas of psychological risk, benefits of the
      study, self report questionnaire details and follow-up procedures. Detailed information about
      what constitutes a food craving will be given to all subjects as well as information about
      voluntary involvement and study withdrawal.
    
  