
    
      1. Research purpose This clinical trial was designed to evaluate the anti-tumor effect of
           sirolimus in patients with advanced or postoperative recurrent pancreatic cancer with
           second-line standard therapy resistance.

        2. Grouping and sample size calculation A single-arm study was designed. Based on clinical
           experience and literature, the expected median survival period of patients with advanced
           pancreatic cancer after second-line resistance or postoperative recurrence was about 3
           months, and the median survival period of such patients was expected to be extended to 6
           months after the treatment with sirolimus. The significance level of statistical test
           was set at 0.05 and the power of test was set as 80%, the time of enrollment was set to
           June 2021, and the time of follow-up was set to June 2023. The follow up loss rate was
           predicted as 5%, and the number of cases needed to be enrolled was calculated as 36.

        3. Clinical trial procedure For the cases to be included, the patient's medical history,
           symptoms, signs and other conditions should be examined in advance, informed consent
           should be obtained and signed, and the patient's age, height, weight, medical history,
           symptoms, signs, pathological results, tumor node metastasis (TNM) stage and other
           contents should be recorded.According to the test requirements, the study was designed
           to be limited to 5 years, and the day of oral administration of sirolimus will be set as
           the first day, tumor markers will be follow up every 3 weeks.Each 3-month review
           includes symptoms, signs, adverse events, blood routine examination, liver and kidney
           function, abdominal enhanced CT, liver enhanced MRI+ diffusion, and chest
           high-resolution CT.

           Overall survival (OS) was taken as the primary endpoint and then recorded to the
           secondary endpoint. All results were recorded in the case report form, clinical efficacy
           and safety were evaluated, and adverse events were observed.If the patient cannot come
           to the hospital for reexamination, follow up will be conducted by telephone, email, etc.

        4. Adverse events record and report Information on non-serious adverse events that occur
           during treatment should be recorded on the clinical trial report form (CRF), and all
           serious adverse events will be recorded in the CRF report form.Few patients in this
           study may have serious liver and kidney function injury, may have allergy reaction,
           secondary hypertension, hypercholesterolemia, serious infection and so on. In view of
           the above possible situations, investigators will fully evaluate the liver and kidney
           function before treatment, and give protective drugs for organ function; And the
           corresponding adjuvant drugs such as blood pressure drugs, lipid-regulating drugs to
           prevent sirolimus side effects;The symptoms and indicators of infection were closely
           monitored. Once adverse events happen, report will be sent to the general manager and
           the head of the hospital immediately, and also to the ethics committee of adverse events
           within the specified time, and make unified analysis after the study.

        5. Data management and statistical analysis Data recording and auditing: The observation
           data will be recorded by the attending physician in the case report form, and the data
           records shall be timely, complete, accurate and authentic.The form will be filled out in
           black (or blue and black), any changes will be made by the relevant personnel, and then
           signed and dated. The changes will not cover the original record. If possible, copy the
           relevant test paper and paste it on the attached page after CRF.

           Data entry: Establish data entry program and database for statistical analysis.

        6. Informed consent The subject must obtain written informed consent before performing the
           study procedures to inform the patient of the specific content related to the study. The
           specific procedures for obtaining informed consent include: the patient's disease
           characteristics, treatment plan and related risks shall be informed in detail by the
           competent doctor, and the patient or legal guardian with civil capacity shall sign the
           informed consent after fully knowing and understanding the relevant process and risks of
           this study.
    
  