
    
      The primary objective of this study is to determine the dose-response relationship of
      subarachnoid (spinal) administered ropivacaine to healthy tall parturients scheduled to
      undergo elective caesarean section under combined subarachnoid / epidural anaesthesia (CSEA)
      with co-administration of a fixed dose of fentanyl. The dose-response relationship will be
      described by determining ED50 (Effective Dose 50) and MLAD (Minimum Local Anaesthetic Dose).

      The height threshold of the participants is based on the study "National Anthropometric
      Research: Effectiveness of Ergonomic Measurements and Applications." By G. Scroumbelos,
      University of Piraeus. Based on the female height distribution of the previously mentioned
      Anthropometric Research, we chose the upper quartile (75th to 99th percentile) as an
      inclusion criterion in our study, which ranges from 167 to 184 cm.

      Secondary objectives are spinal induced hypotension, speed of installation and duration of
      sensory and motor blockade, blood gas analysis of the umbilical circulation of the newborn,
      Apgar score of the newborn, adverse effects related to the anaesthetic technique (discomfort,
      nausea, vomiting, pruritus) and the degree of maternal satisfaction.

      This is a prospective non randomized double-blinded trial in which a specific algorithm for
      the local anaesthetic dose will be adopted (up-down sequential allocation, described below).
      A written informed consent will be required by all participants.

      The perioperative management of the participants follows standard clinical protocols.
      Specifically, conventional non-invasive monitoring consisting of five lead
      electrocardiography, pulse oximetry and automatic oscillometric cuff blood pressure is used.
      A low-dose spinal via the needle-through-needle combined spinal-epidural (CSE) technique is
      employed. With the patient in the sedentary position, the O3-O4 intervertebral space is
      located, followed by skin antisepsis and topical lidocaine infiltration. The loss of
      resistance technique is used in order to locate the epidural space.

      The dose of ropivacaine for each parturient is determined by the response of the previous
      participant to a higher or lower dose according to the sequential distribution algorithm
      (up-down sequential allocation). Specifically, the dose of ropivacaine for each parturient
      (except for the first) will fluctuate by 0.375 mg depending on the success (decrease by 0.375
      mg) or failure (increase by 0.376 mg) of the subarachnoid anaesthesia of the previous
      parturient enrolled in the study. A fix dose of fentanyl (15 mcg) will also be
      co-administered to all participants. The dose for the first participant will be tailored to
      the results of a preliminary empirical study of a small number of parturients not enrolled in
      the trial.

      Success of subarachnoid anaesthesia. Successful subarachnoid anaesthesia is defined as (1) an
      adequate sensory block at the level of T6 or higher within 15 minutes of the spinal injection
      of the local anaesthetic and opioid, (2) no need for a supplementary dose (rescue dose) of
      local anaesthetic given epidurally for at least 50 minutes after subarachnoid infusion
      (maternal pain intensity measured by a Visual Analog Scale, VAS ≤ 3), (3) and the onset of
      surgery 15 minutes after spinal injection of the local anaesthetic and opioid. In the case of
      successful subarachnoid anaesthesia, the dose of the spinally administered ropivacaine for
      the next participant decreases by 0.375 mg.

      Failure of subarachnoid anaesthesia. Unsuccessful subarachnoid anaesthesia is defined as (1)
      VAS > 3 and (2) the need for a rescue dose (ropivacaine 0.5% 3-5 ml given epidurally) once
      within 50 minutes after the spinal infusion. In this case, the dose of the spinally
      administered ropivacaine for the next participant increases by 0.375 mg.

      Exclusion from the study. The participant will be excluded from the study if (1) VAS > 3 and
      (2) there is a need for two or more rescue doses administered epidurally within 50 minutes
      after subarachnoid infusion or (3) there is a need to switch to general anaesthesia. In this
      case, the same dose of ropivacaine is repeated for the next parturient enrolled in the study.

      According to the study protocol, two anaesthetists are required to conduct the study: a study
      supervisor who sets the dose of the local anaesthetic for the next participant according to
      the sequential distribution algorithm (see above) and performs the technique and an
      anaesthetist responsible for recording the study parameters and for the clinical management
      of the parturient, blinded to the administered dose.

      A specific algorithm will be employed for prevention and treatment of spinal induced
      hypotension, which includes co-hydration with crystalloids (10ml.kg-1) and use of
      vasopressors (phenylephrine and ephedrine). The algorithm is in agreement with the latest
      guidelines on the management of hypotension during caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia
      ("International consensus statement on the management of hypotension with vasopressors during
      caesarean section under spinal anaesthesia." Anaesthesia. 2018).

      Sample size and statistical analysis. The sequential distribution methodology described by
      Dixon and Massey (up-down sequential allocation) is applied for statistical analysis.
      Bibliographic data suggests that "up-down sequential allocation" gives reliable results with
      a sample size of 20 to 40 individuals.

      Data analysis will be performed using the Stata ™ software (Version 10.1 MP, Stata
      Corporation, College Station, TX 77845, USA).
    
  