
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate the objective response rate (ORR) (confirmed and unconfirmed, complete and
      partial) with talazoparib plus avelumab in patients with stage IV or recurrent non-squamous
      non-small cell lung cancer bearing pathogenic STK11 genomic alterations that were
      previously-treated with anti-PD-1/PD-L1 therapy and platinum-based chemotherapy.

      II. To evaluate disease control rate at 12 weeks (DCR12) after registration.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To evaluate investigator assessed progression-free survival (IA-PFS). II. To evaluate
      overall survival (OS). III. To evaluate duration of response (DOR) among responders. IV. To
      evaluate the frequency and severity of toxicities.

      TRANSLATIONAL MEDICINE OBJECTIVES:

      I. To collect, process, and bank cell-free deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) (cfDNA) at baseline,
      cycle 3 day 1, progression, and end of treatment for future development of a proposal to
      evaluate comprehensive next-generation sequencing of circulating tumor DNA (ctDNA) and
      examine molecular mechanisms of resistance to talazoparib and avelumab.

      II. To establish a tissue/blood repository from patients with refractory non-small cell lung
      cancer (NSCLC).

      III. To evaluate clinical outcomes (ORR, IA-PFS, OS) in patients with concurrent somatic
      mutations in KEAP1 detected on the Foundation Medicine Inc. (FMI) panel from the LUNGMAP
      screening protocol.

      IV. To evaluate clinical outcomes (ORR, IA-PFS, OS) in patients with concurrent mutations in
      ATM or other DNA damage response genes detected on the FMI panel from the LUNGMAP screening
      protocol.

      V. To evaluate the association between tumor mutational burden (TMB) measured on the FMI
      panel from the LUNGMAP screening protocol and clinical outcomes (ORR, IA-PFS, OS).

      OUTLINE:

      Patients receive talazoparib orally (PO) daily and avelumab intravenously (IV) over 60
      minutes on days 1 and 15. Cycles repeat every 28 days in the absence of disease progression
      or unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed up until death or 3 years after
      sub-study registration.
    
  