
    
      DETAILED OUTLINE OF RESEARCH PROPOSAL

      Current State of Knowledge Primary liver cancer, hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), is a major
      health problem worldwide. It is the 5th most common cancer and the 3rd most common cause of
      cancer death in the world. Eighty-five percent of cases occur in developing countries, while
      in the United States and Canada, it is the fastest growing cancer.

      General Treatment Overview: HCC tends to remain within the liver and, therefore, cure with
      preserved liver function is possible. Surgical resection results in 5-year survival rates of
      60%-70%. Liver transplantation can cure both the cancer and underlying liver disease.
      Four-year survival for HCC within the Milan criteria (single HCC <5 cm or ≤3 HCC <3 cm) is
      70%-85% after transplantation. Unfortunately, most patients are not resectable. Transarterial
      chemoembolization (TACE) has become the mainstay of treatment for unresectable HCC. What
      makes TACE relatively safe is the liver-unique vascular supply from the portal vein, whereas
      HCC is supplied almost entirely by branches of the hepatic artery. In a randomized controlled
      trial for unresectable HCC not suitable for a curative intent, transarterial
      chemoembolisation or TACE were compared to conservative treatment. TACE induced objective
      responses (complete and partial response) that were sustained for at least 6 months in 35% of
      cases. Survival probabilities at 1 year and 2 years were 82% and 63% for TACE, significantly
      better than 63% and 27% obtained with conservative treatment. Overall survival at 1 and 2
      years was also significantly better for the chemoembolization group 57% and 31% vs. 32% and
      11%. However, many patients have large tumours and response rates decline rapidly with
      increasing size. TACE alone results in 2 year overall survivals of 42%, 0 and 0 for lesions
      5-7cm, 8-10cm, and >10cm, respectively. Therefore, additional locally ablative treatments are
      being sought. In the same report, TACE plus radiation results in 2 year overall survivals of
      63%, 50% and 17% for lesions 5-7cm, 8-10cm, and >10cm, respectively.

      External beam radiotherapy has long been considered to have a very limited role in the
      treatment of liver tumors. This is due to the fact that the minimum dose required for local
      ablation exceeded the dose that would result in liver toxicity. The technical development of
      stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT), alone or in combination with TACE, renewed
      interest in radiation for HCC. This work was done mainly by two groups, in Michigan and
      Stockholm, who demonstrated that the delivery of high doses of radiation to limited volumes
      of the liver had promising results in terms of local control and survival with acceptable
      toxicity. Dr. Lock and his team are one of the first centres to initiate this type of work
      and currently have one of the largest databases outside of asia. In addition, he leads one of
      only two groups in Canada able to dose escalate based on radiobiological parameters thereby
      providing the highest possible doses within known toxicity constraints. For SBRT, advanced
      techniques are used to very accurately deliver a high total dose to the target in a small
      number of daily fractions while avoiding dose delivery to surrounding healthy structures.
      SBRT is offered as an ablative radical local treatment. In total, eleven primary series
      reported on tumor response and survival of around 300 patients who have been treated with
      stereotactic body radiation therapy as primary therapy for HCC. The reported percentage of
      objective responses defined as complete and partial was ≥64% in 7 of 8 series. Median
      survival between 11.7 and 32 months has been observed. Toxicity, based on multiple case
      series trials, indicate that the treatment is considered safe. The most common CTC grade 3-4
      toxicity was elevation of liver enzymes.

      For unresectable cases, both TACE and SBRT have been used safely and with good efficacy as
      separate treatments. Particularly for larger lesions that are more commonly seen in London,
      the outcome remains suboptimal compared to surgery. Combined treatment case series have shown
      dramatic results, but there has not been any randomized trial to compare the value of
      combining the two modalities. Therefore a clinical study comparing SBRT and SBRT+TACE will be
      significant as it addresses a common problem in one of the two most deadly cancers.

      Combined Modality Treatment RT in a range of doses has been combined with TACE in several
      case cohort studies. One example is a phase 1 dose escalation study that demonstrated that 62
      Gy and 52 Gy were safe doses for HCC <10 cm and >10 cm, respectively, in conjunction with
      TACE. Koo et al prospectively studied 42 patients who received TACE followed by RT. Survival
      in this cohort was improved compared with a historical control group of 29 patients who
      received TACE alone (median survival 11.7 vs. 4.7 months). Four studies specifically compared
      cohorts of patients that received TACE alone versus TACE+SBRT. All demonstrated significant
      improvement in response rates and overall survival. Clearly these trials are subject to bias
      due to non-randomized selection, possible lack of generalizability to Canadian patients, and
      heterogeneous patient populations. Therefore, there is an important clinical need to
      investigate combined RT+TACE to improve outcomes in this rapidly growing poor prognosis
      patient population that has few options.

      Research Design and Methodology The objective is to demonstrate superiority of SBRT in
      addition to TACE in terms of intrahepatic disease progression versus TACE alone using a
      randomized Phase III design. Phase I/II data has been published with recent data providing
      accurate event rates for statistical estimation of a small sample size requirement for this
      endpoint.
    
  