
    
      Aging and psychosis are major priority areas for VA. This project is a continuation of a
      Merit Review Program, in which we developed, manualized and conducted randomized controlled
      trials of a novel psychosocial rehabilitation intervention for older people with
      schizophrenia, called cognitive-behavioral social skills training (CBSST). We found that
      CBSST improved community functioning in these patients. CBSST, however, is an intensive
      program that may burden VA mental health clinics with demands for additional staff and
      financial resources and Veterans with travel and time demands. To reduce these burdens and
      barriers to implementation of CBSST, we developed a computer-assisted CBSST intervention that
      takes advantage of available handheld computer technology (personal data assistants or PDAs).
      Therapist contact is cut 50% and replaced by handheld computer-assisted CBSST intervention
      tools. The project will examine whether computer-assisted CBSST is as effective as the full
      CBSST program, while improving client satisfaction and reducing burden and cost. A
      randomized-controlled clinical trial comparing 3 treatment conditions (computer-assisted
      CBSST, CBSST, and a PDA-only control condition) will be conducted. Participants will be
      recruited, treated for 6 months and followed longitudinally for 6 months after treatment. A
      multidimensional evaluation of treatment outcome, including functioning (primary outcome),
      CBSST skills acquisition, and symptoms will be conducted at baseline, mid-treatment, end of
      treatment (6-months after baseline), and 6-month follow-up (12 months after baseline).
      Factors that might mediate improvement in CBSST will be assessed, including homework
      adherence, cognitive insight (metacognition and belief flexibility), and defeatist
      performance beliefs (e.g., "Why try, I'll just fail again").

      The proposed project will also use innovative computer-assisted Ecological Momentary
      Assessment (EMAc) methods to measure outcomes. EMAc is an ambulatory data collection
      technique that permits the real time, real world monitoring of behaviors, moods, and
      cognitions. Participants are signaled by handheld computers several times throughout the day
      to respond to questionnaires, which eliminates recall and information-processing biases that
      can compromise the validity of traditional self-report and interview measures. Outcomes in
      the proposed trial will be assessed using traditional measures, as well as EMAc measures.

      Specific Aims: (1) To determine whether computer-assisted CBSST is as effective as the full
      CBSST program (in prior project) and supportive contact, despite reduced burden and cost. (2)
      To examine whether EMAc measures of functioning and psychotic symptoms are sensitive to
      change in CBSST. (3) To examine whether increased cognitive insight, reduced defeatist
      performance beliefs, and greater homework adherence mediate outcomes in CBSST.
    
  