
    
      This study will separate into two phases. Phase I is a large scale cross-sectional survey of
      corporations in Hong Kong to examine the employers' knowledge, attitudes and practices in
      promoting SC in the workplace. Phase II is a 2-arm randomized controlled trial that will be
      conducted to examine the effectiveness of mobile phone-based intervention combined with
      company health talk, brief phone counselling and nicotine replacement therapy sampling, for
      SC in workplaces.

      Data analyses

      Phase I:

      Descriptive statistics will be used to analyze the (1) profile of the corporations, including
      the total number of employees and smoking employees; (2) employers/managerial staff's
      knowledge on smoking; (3) employers/managerial staff's attitudes on smoking cessation; (4)
      practices of the companies with respect to smoking cessation.

      Phase II:

      Primary outcome is self-reported abstinence in the past 7 days at 6-month follow-up.
      Secondary outcomes for smoking cessation include self-reported abstinence in the past 7 days
      at 9- and 12-month follow-ups, the biochemically validated abstinence (defined as exhaled CO
      level <4ppm and saliva cotinine level ≤30 ng/ml); smoking reduction (50% or above reduction
      in cigarette consumption compared with baseline. Secondary outcomes for mental health include
      stress (Perceived Stress Scale-10), depression (Personal Health Questionnaire for
      Depression), anxiety (Generalized Anxiety Disorder scale) and self-rated health.

      Descriptive statistics such as frequency, percentage, and mean will be used to summarize the
      outcomes and other variables. Chi-square tests and t-tests will be used to compare outcome
      variables between subgroups. The intention-to-treat (ITT) analysis will be used such that
      those lost to contact and refused cases at the follow-ups will be treated as no reduction in
      cigarette consumption nor quitting. Multiple imputations will be used to compute missing data
      for outcome variables. The association between intervention adherence (e.g., engagement in
      the IM interaction) and the primary outcome within the participants in the intervention group
      will be examined. The intervention effect by subgroups will be assessed respectively,
      including sex, age, education level, company types, previous quit attempts, cigarette
      dependence, and intention to quit, although the statistical power would be lower due to
      smaller numbers.
    
  