
    
      Despite data indicating nearly 80,000 individuals starting HIV pre-exposure prophylaxis
      (PrEP) by the end of 2015, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimates
      that there are over 1.2 million adults with a substantial risk for HIV acquisition.
      Therefore, only 6% of these individuals are receiving PrEP. One of the barriers to PrEP
      implementation is lack of healthcare provider (HCP) knowledge and willingness to prescribe
      it. In a 2015 national survey, only 66% of primary care clinicians were aware of PrEP.
      However, once PrEP was defined, 91% indicated a willingness to prescribe it for high risk
      patients and expressed an interest in education about how to deliver PrEP. A descriptive
      report on the early experiences with PrEP uptake and delivery in San Francisco identified the
      following priority steps for HCPs to address PrEP delivery issues and to maximize PrEP's
      public health impact: (1) increase PrEP knowledge among HCPs and (2) expand PrEP access by
      training HCPs and developing tools to facilitate PrEP delivery in clinical settings.
      Additionally, based on the framework of the PrEP care continuum, interventions to enhance
      PrEP uptake include HCP education, tools to assess sexual risk, and systems to minimize HCP
      burden. Given these proposals and recommendations, innovative and effective approaches are
      needed to support and provide guidance to HCPs regardless of level of experience prescribing
      PrEP.

      The investigators propose a PrEP optimization intervention targeted at HCPs to increase PrEP
      uptake and persistence among those at risk for HIV acquisition. This intervention includes:
      (1) an integrated web-based panel management tool called PrEP-Rx, which provides structured
      HIV risk assessment, automates reminders for laboratory testing and appointments, and reports
      patients' history of PrEP use; and (2) a centralized PrEP coordination overseen by a clinical
      support staff (referred to as the PrEP coordinator) who can identify individuals at high risk
      for HIV through direct patient contact or by reviewing registries for sexually transmitted
      infections (STIs) and who can support multiple HCPs. PrEP-Rx consists of three components:
      (a) Risk Assessment, (b) Provider Dashboard, and (c) Knowledge Base. The brief online
      behavioral Risk Assessment will be provided to patients to complete prior to their initial
      visits with HCPs. This assessment allows patients to respond to sensitive risk questions in
      private, removes the need for HCPs to ask detailed risk questions, provides a standardized
      and comprehensive view of patient's HIV risk, and decreases the time burden on HCPs. Based on
      responses to the Risk Assessment, a patient's risk is categorized (high, medium, or low) and
      results are presented to the HCP on a "Provider Dashboard" along with laboratory test results
      that are required prior to PrEP initiation, and the patient's history of PrEP use (if
      applicable). Based on these data, the HCP and patient can discuss the risks and benefits of
      PrEP initiation. If a PrEP prescription is given, PrEP-Rx will generate automated follow-up
      reminders which are sent to the PrEP Coordinator for scheduling office appointments or
      laboratory visits. The activities of PrEP-Rx and the role of the HCP are augmented and
      managed by the PrEP Coordinator, who has the ability to identify and contact patients who
      have tested positive for STIs, follow-up with patients to minimize loss-to-follow-up and
      improve adherence, and ensure timely laboratory monitoring. PrEP-Rx also contains a Knowledge
      Base for HCP education and ongoing training.

      Therefore, the investigators propose the following aims:

      Primary Aim: Evaluate the efficacy of the PrEP optimization intervention (PrEP Coordinator +
      PrEP-Rx) to increase PrEP prescriptions through a stepped-wedge design among 10 San Francisco
      primary care clinics. The investigators hypothesize that the mean number of prescriptions
      issued will be significantly higher when the clinics use the PrEP intervention versus when
      they do not.

      Secondary Aims:

        1. Explore differences in PrEP initiation, duration of use, and reasons for discontinuation
           based on patient's age, race/ethnicity, and sex/gender, and by clinic and HCP
           characteristics among study clinics.

        2. Explore sustainability of the intervention during an eight-month follow-up after the
           Stepped-wedge Phase.

        3. Investigate facilitators and barriers of PrEP delivery and experiences with the proposed
           PrEP intervention through qualitative interviews with HCPs, PrEP Coordinators, and
           clinic directors of study clinics.

      The combination of the PrEP Coordinator plus PrEP-Rx has the potential to improve all steps
      of the PrEP continuum and enhance overall care by identifying individuals at high risk of HIV
      acquisition, standardizing HIV risk assessment, helping in PrEP initiation, systematizing
      follow-up visits or laboratory assessments, and educating HCPs about emerging PrEP data.
      These goals can have a significant public health impact and be attained with minimal burden
      on existing clinic resources.
    
  