
    
      Sarcoidosis is a benign, inflammatory condition which will typically involve the lungs and
      mediastinal lymph nodes. The diagnosis of sarcoidosis is usually confirmed with tissue
      biopsy, especially if patients in whom treatment with corticosteroids is required.
      Asymptomatic patients not requiring treatment may not require biopsy, although this is
      commonly performed because of patient's preference in confirming the diagnosis and concerns
      about other diagnostic possibilities such as lymphoma.

      Given the predilection of this disease to the chest, the lung and mediastinal lymph nodes are
      the most common sites for biopsy. Bronchoscopic samples are often obtained initially given
      their good sensitivity for this disease and low complication rates. If the diagnosis of
      sarcoidosis is not confirmed by bronchoscopy, more invasive surgical procedures such as
      mediastinoscopy or open lung biopsy may be required. As such, any improvement in the
      minimally invasive methods for diagnosis of this condition would be of benefit these patients
      and may also lead to cost efficiencies for the health care system.

      Transbronchial needle aspiration (TBNA) with a 19 gauge "histology" needle has been the
      standard bronchoscopic approach to the biopsy of mediastinal lymph nodes in patients with
      suspected sarcoidosis. Using anatomical landmarks and computed tomography (CT) images, the
      TBNA needle is advanced "blindly" through the airway wall, and into the mediastinal lymph
      node. Because of the lack of real-time visual guidance, it is possible to miss the targeted
      lymph node as well as enter vascular structures with the needle system and cause bleeding.

      A new method of performing TBNA has now been developed which uses real-time endobronchial
      ultrasonography to advance a 22 gauge needle into mediastinal lymph nodes under direct
      visualization (EBUS-TBNA). While this technique has been proven to be effective in the
      diagnosis and staging of lung malignancy, its sensitivity for the diagnosis of sarcoidosis is
      unclear given that larger biopsy samples are often required to make this diagnosis.

      This study will aim to randomize patients with a clinical suspicion of sarcoidosis and
      mediastinal adenopathy undergoing bronchoscopy to TBNA vs. EBUS-TBNA in order to compare the
      sensitivity of these tests for sarcoidosis.
    
  