
    
      There are studies in the literature regarding the positive effect of chiropractic treatment
      on musculoskeletal injuries. In a study, it is found that the group that received cervical
      chiropractic manipulation on judo athletes showed a statistically significant (p <0.05)
      increase in grip strength compared to those who received sham practice. In another study, it
      is found that a single lumbar spinal manipulation reduced the relative strength difference
      between the limbs for knee and hip flexion (p <0.05). In another study, it is shown that a
      single spinal manipulation session increased the muscle strength of the ankle plantar flexor
      muscles and corticospinal excitability (p <0.05) in elite Taekwondo athletes. Likewise,
      according to another study, lumbopelvic joint manipulation increased quadriceps activation
      and strength.

      A study claims that young female athletes with talocrural joint dysfunction showed a
      statistically significant (p <0.05) improvement in vertical jump height after chiropractic
      manipulation. In addition, in a study investigating the effect of pelvic manipulation on
      vertical jump height in female university students with functional leg length inequality, it
      was found that after the intervention, jump height improved significantly only in the pelvic
      manipulation group compared to pre-intervention height, while improvement in female
      university students with functional leg length inequality was found to be statistically
      significant (p <0.05) in both manipulation and stretching groups after the manipulation.

      A study showed that chiropractic spinal manipulative therapy can increase hip extension
      ability in young running athletes (p <0.05). According to a study conducted on football
      players, it was shown that combined manipulative interventions caused significantly (p <0.05)
      increases in the range of motion in the lumbar region and sacroiliac joint flexion. In
      addition, it was reported that the group who received chiropractic manipulation (compared to
      the group that received sham manipulation) caused a significant increase in kick speed (p
      <0.05) after the manipulation.

      Again, in another research, it is found that an increase in cervical range of motion and a
      decrease in neck pain with a single cervical HVLA (High Velocity, Low amplitude: HVLA)
      manipulation (p <0.05) and stated that HVLA manipulation was more effective than
      mobilization.
    
  