
    
      The current COVID19 pandemic poses a huge challenge on health authorities and infrastructure
      due to rapid progression of infection with an estimated rate of severe disease that needs
      hospitalization and medical intervention. It is also noteworthy that health care workers are
      at high risk of contracting COVID19 when dealing with cases.

      Previous experience with Corona SARS demonstrated a therapeutic benefit of using convalescent
      plasma for patients with Corona SARS in Hong Kong. Passive immunization using hyper
      immunoglobulin preparations against measles as well as early treatment was proven effective
      when compared to no intervention conservative approach . A recent publication encourages the
      use of COVID19 convalescent serum for the preparation of hyper immunoglobulins to be used for
      passive immunization as well as treatment of early disease before the development of lower
      respiratory tract disease; pneumonia.

      Provision of Convalescent COVID19 hyper immunoglobulin:

      This can be achieved through one of the following three approaches:

      Fist approach: Convalescent COVID19 immunoglobulins can be obtained by transfusion of 1 - 4
      units of COVID19 FFP for passive immunization or treatment of early disease. The advantages
      of this approach is that it is easy to prepare such units of FFP through regular blood banks.
      Disadvantages include variability of existence and levels of neutralizing COVID19
      immunoglobulins in individual plasma units. This may result in variability of effectiveness
      for such an approach for prevention and treatment. Risk of transfusion transmitted infections
      as well as immunological adverse events due to infusion of large volume of FFP are among
      other disadvantages of using individual FFP units.

      Second approach: Classical industrial COVID19 hyper immunoglobulins from convalescent donors.
      This approach provides more consistent small volumes of concentrated hyperimmunoglobulin
      preparations due to pooling of plasma donations from large number of convalescent donors
      which bypasses the variability of neutralizing immunoglobulins in individual plasma
      donations. The preparation of hyper immunoglobulins includes steps for virus inactivation
      which results in safer products compared to non-virally inactivated FFP. Production of
      COVID19 convalescent hyper immunoglobulins under current situation is practically not
      feasible due to limited source COVID19 convalescent plasma, regulatory hurdles and the large
      volume of production batches (minimum of 100s of liters of convalescent plasma).

      Third approach: Recently a Swiss company developed medical device to prepare Intravenous
      Immunoglobulin (IVIG) preparations from only 4 liters of plasma (20 units of FFP) which is
      sufficient to produce 20 grams of IVIG. The technology involves the concentration of
      immunoglobulins from 20 plasma donations into IVIG preparations as well as virus inactivation
      of lipid enveloped viruses (HBV, HCV, HIV & Corona VS2) . Safety of Mini-Pool IVIG was proven
      in a previous clinical trial conducted in ITP pediatric population. The yield of one batch of
      this Mini-Pool IVIG is about 20 gms which can be sufficient for prophylaxis and/or treatment
      of 6 - 10 individuals.
    
  