
    
      HYPOTHESES:

        1. Compared to baseline, the MBCT group will have significant post-treatment improvements
           in self-report measures of: (a) sexual distress; (b) sexual desire, subjective sexual
           arousal, perception of genital arousal, and sexual pleasure; (c) relationship
           satisfaction; (d) depressive symptoms and rumination; (e) perceived stress, general
           anxiety, anxiety sensitivity, and sexuality-related situational anxiety (as
           self-reported at the sexual arousal assessment); and (f) mindfulness, self-compassion,
           non-attachment, and interoceptive awareness.

        2. Compared to baseline, the MBCT group will have significant post-treatment improvements
           in laboratory physiological measures of: (a) genital sexual response as measured by a
           vaginal photoplethysmograph, (b) interoceptive awareness, as measured by a heart rate
           perception task, and (c) cortisol:DHEA ratio as measured by hormonal assays of saliva
           samples.

        3. We hypothesize that the changes in the endpoints listed in #1 or #2 will be
           significantly greater in the MBCT group than in the support group.

        4. We hypothesize that participation in the MBCT group will significantly increase
           concordance between genital and subjective sexual arousal.

        5. Mindfulness, self-compassion, and interoceptive awareness will significantly mediate
           improvements in sexual distress and desire in the MBCT group at all post-treatment
           assessment points.

        6. Expectations of change with treatment will not significantly moderate improvements in
           sexual distress and desire in the MBCT group.

        7. Participants' impressions of change will be significantly greater in the MBCT group
           compared to the support group at all post-treatment assessment points.

        8. We hypothesize that participants will experience fewer breaks in the sexual response
           cycle throughout the course of the eight-week treatment.
    
  