
    
      The number of seniors age 75 and older is predicted to double by 2030, as is the number of
      seniors with mobility disability, physical frailty and resulting consequences, such as falls
      and loss of autonomy. This causes an enormous challenge to the individual, to medical care,
      and the society as a whole. A condition that is considered central to the development of
      physical frailty and its consequences is sarcopenia, the loss of muscle mass and strength. To
      date sarcopenia is underdiagnosed in clinical care and effective treatments for sarcopenia
      are missing.

      This study aims to test the individual and combined effect and cost-effectiveness of a simple
      home exercise program and / or protein supplementation on the risk of falling in seniors at
      high risk of progressive muscle mass loss and sarcopenia.

      The STRONG trial will be a 2x2 factorial design multi-centre double-blind randomized
      controlled clinical trial among 800 senior men and women; study duration is 12 months. The
      primary endpoint is the rate of falling. Key secondary endpoints include functional decline,
      and the proportion of seniors with frailty, sarcopenia, and loss of autonomy. STRONG will
      further assess the cost-effectiveness of the interventions based on health care utilization
      data collected every 2 months from each participant and observed incidence of the endpoints.
      Mechanistic endpoints include change in muscle mass by DXA(arms and legs), change in
      myostatin levels, and muscle quality (based on MRI).

      The interventions are (1) a simple home exercise program (a validated strength-enhancing or a
      control joint flexibility exercise program) to be performed 3x30 minutes/week; and (2)
      protein supplementation (either 20g of whey protein or isocaloric powder given in two
      portions for breakfast and dinner each day). All participants will receive a control dose of
      24'000 IU vitamin D per month (equivalent to 800 IU vitamin D/day) to ensure that over 97% of
      STRONG participants will be vitamin D replete (25-hydroxyvitamin D > 20 ng/ml) during the
      course of the trial.

      The trial will have clinical visits at baseline, 6 months, and 12 months. In between clinical
      visits, telephone interviews will be performed every 2 months.
    
  