
    
      The objectives of this project were to design an evidence-based, family-centered fitness and
      nutrition program and evaluate the feasibility and acceptability of implementing this program
      in a Volunteer in Medicine Clinic, discussing successes, challenges and lessons learned.

      This prospective pilot study was conducted within a Volunteers in Medicine (VIM) model clinic
      in Southeastern Pennsylvania from July - December 2012. The VIM Model focuses on providing
      primary care to children, adolescents and adults that are uninsured. This model is guided by
      the principles of inclusion, service and community involvement, with volunteers providing the
      vast majority of health care and support services.

      Community Volunteers in Medicine (CVIM) provides primary care and dental care to uninsured
      adults and children who live or work in Chester County with incomes less than 300% of the
      federal poverty level. In 2016, Chester County's residents were 7% Hispanic, 24% obese, 9%
      uninsured and 10% of children living in families with incomes below the poverty level. Most
      pediatric patients served by CVIM are of Hispanic/Latino descent and have a high prevalence
      of overweight and obesity (54%), which is higher than the county prevalence of 25% in
      school-aged children.

      After a quality improvement project identified the high prevalence of childhood obesity in
      children served by CVIM, the authors proposed developing a family-centered obesity treatment
      program. CVIM's Executive Board committed support to the program. Temple University School of
      Medicine's Institutional Review Board approved the project. Consent materials were available
      in English and Spanish.

      The program name Step by Step (Paso a Paso) was chosen by consensus, logo designed by a local
      graphic artist, and T-shirts provided to staff, volunteers and participants. Behavior change
      theory and goal-setting principles informed the program design. A literature review
      identified evidence-based best practices. Thirteen 1.5 hour weekday educational sessions,
      five 1-hour weekday fitness classes and seventeen 1 hour weekend activities were scheduled
      over 22 weeks. The planned total contact time was 41.5 hours, above the minimum effective
      amount recommended by the USPSTF. Children participated in all activities. Weekly text
      messages with motivational messages and reminders were planned. A Manual of Operations
      detailed the volunteer orientation, session outlines, and handouts. Sessions had bilingual
      staff and handouts were available in English and in Spanish. Clinic staff, volunteers and
      family members were encouraged to participate in fitness and nutrition activities.

      Staff and Volunteer Recruitment and Training Providers recruited from clinic volunteers and
      staff conducted enrollment histories and physical examinations. The clinic's nutrition
      education specialist organized cooking classes with assistance from volunteers. Volunteers
      recruited from an Accelerated Pre-Medicine Post Bachelor's Program at a local college
      completed a background check, CVIM volunteer orientation and Step by Step program
      orientation. Volunteers provided child supervision, assistance with physical activity and
      cooking classes and language support. A physician (KS) was present for every session.

      Participant Recruitment and Enrollment Enrollment goal was 10 families. Chart review
      identified eligible families; they were contacted by phone and invited to attend the
      enrollment meeting with a standard script.

      At enrollment, parents signed informed consent and children assented; parents gave permission
      for photography and physical activity participation. Parents and children completed baseline
      questionnaires on fitness and nutrition knowledge and practices. Participant histories and
      physicals were completed using the Pennsylvania Sports Physical Standard form. Families gave
      permission to receive text reminders and were given a schedule for activities and educational
      sessions.
    
  