
    
      Study Design: The study design was a parallel group RCT with two groups (Behavioral sleep
      intervention and Control) and three assessment points. Sleep was assessed by actigraphy (and
      sleep daily) and parent-reported Brief Infant Sleep Questionnaire (BISQ) during the week
      before behavioral sleep intervention, four weeks and eight weeks after sleep intervention.
      Other measures were collected during a laboratory visit scheduled at the end of each of the
      three assessment.

      Participants: Participants were recruited through web-based media advertisements.
      Approximately 100 participants will be randomized to behavioral sleep intervention condition
      or a control condition. Inclusion criteria were: 1) infant age range 5-18 months; 2)
      significant sleep problem lasting at least 2 weeks, manifested in an average of ≥30 minutes
      sleep onset latency, and/or ≥2 awakenings per night based on parent reports; and 3)
      two-parent families with both mother and father willing to participate in study procedures.
      Exclusion criteria were: 1) infant pervasive developmental disorder or significant medical
      illness; and 2) any concurrent treatment for infant sleep problems.

      Study Procedure: Participants are screened via telephone. Caregivers of the intervention
      group were instructed to establish tailored behavioral sleep intervention strategies. Control
      families received no sleep intervention. For infants with sleep problems in control group,
      any sleep treatment in health care services should be recorded. Infant social-emotional
      development were assessed by Ages & Stages Questionnaires: Social-Emotional2 (ASQ:SE2) and
      behaviors in Still face experiment. During the experiment, the mother and infant engage in a
      three-step interaction: 1) playing"peek-a-boo" for 60 seconds; 2) mother maintaining a
      neutral facial expression while looking at the child, not smiling, talking, or touching for
      120 seconds still-face (SF) episode; 3) maternal re-engagement with the infant to"peek-a-boo"
      for a 60 seconds reunion (RE) episode. The study was approved by the Institutional Review
      Board of Shanghai Children's Medical Center and all parents provided written informed
      consent.

      Intervention: One clinical psychologist and one pediatrician delivered the intervention. The
      intervention was performed at Shanghai Children's Medical Center after parents signed the
      informed consent form. Interventionists collaborate with the family to design a tailored
      sleep intervention strategy, which involves appropriate sleep schedule and bedtime routine,
      putting the child to bed while still sleepy rather than when already asleep, caregivers
      should minimize their involvement after putting the infant to bed, and waiting 1 to 2 minutes
      before attending to the child during nocturnal awakenings. Parents are educated to implement
      the behavioral protocol at bedtime and subsequent night wakings. Furthermore, families of
      intervention group received a e-booklet describing their intervention and cell phone support
      weekly.

      Measures: Infant sleep is assessed by Actigraphy and parent-report (sleep diary and Brief
      Infant Sleep Questionnaire, BISQ); Infant social-emotional development is evaluated by Ages &
      Stages Questionnaires: Social-Emotional2 (ASQ:SE2), and behaviors (facial expression, gaze,
      and self-comforting) in three separate dimensions during the Still face experiment.
    
  