
    
      Low energy shock wave (LESW) is known to facilitate tissue regeneration with analgesic and
      anti-inflammatory effects. LESW has been proved to have therapeutic effects in patients with
      nonbacterial prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CPPS). Investigator's previous
      study has demonstrated that LESW treatment inhibited nerve growth factor (NGF), interleukin-6
      (IL-6), and cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) expression, and blocked the bladder pain, inflammation
      and overactivity in a cyclophosphamide induced cystitis model in rats. These findings suggest
      that a potential clinical benefit of LESW treatment for patients with interstitial
      cystitis/bladder pain syndrome (IC/BPS).

      A total of 50 participants with IC/BPS will be enrolled to receive LESW (transcutaneous
      applied to the suprapubic bladder region with 2000 shocks, frequency of 3 pulses per second
      and maximum total energy flow density 0.25 millijoule/mm2) once a week for 4 weeks or placebo
      (same condition but with no energy) treatment.

      All participants should have IC symptoms for at least 6 months, and have received cystoscopy
      to rule out other bladder lesion. Participants should not have urinary tract infection (UTI)
      in recent 3 months, and no urinary tract stone. Participants should not receive intravesical
      hyaluronic acid treatment in recent 3 months, or intravesical Botox injection in recent 12
      months. Retreatment with LESW at 3 months if participants reports ineffective.

      Primary end-point is the change of the O'Leary-Sant symptom score (OSS), including
      Interstitial Cystitis Symptom Index (ICSI) and Interstitial Cystitis Problem Index (ICPI)
      from baseline to 1 month after treatment. Secondary endpoints include Visual Analogue Scale
      (VAS), daily frequency, nocturia and functional bladder capacity (FBC) as record in 3-day
      voiding diary, maximum flow rate (Qmax), voided volume, postvoiding residual (PVR) and global
      response assessment (GRA). Two visits are required at baseline screening (before first
      treatment), treatment (V1), 1 week (V2), 2 weeks (V3), 3 weeks (V4) and 1 week post V4
      treatment (V5), 1 month post V4 treatment (V6, primary end-point), and 3 months post V4
      treatment (V7) . Urine samples will be collected at each time-point for NGF and cytokines
      tests. Bladder biopsy will be performed at baseline and repeat cystoscopy at 3 months post
      treatment optional.
    
  