
    
      Most recent research publications and clinical trials have exclusively focused on the
      hospital and intensive care unit (ICU) care of COVID-19 patients. Few have focused on how to
      direct care delivered at home, where the majority of coronavirus infected will recover, and
      how and when to rescue those who are at immediate risk for poor outcomes. To standardize the
      home monitoring process and offer guidance in this uncharted territory, the researchers have
      created a method for outpatient management of COVID-19 patients and high suspicion
      influenza-like illness (ILI) for Emory University Hospital. This includes the newly
      implemented model of clinics including in-person ambulatory management in the Acute
      Respiratory Clinic (ARC), the Virtual Outpatient Management Clinic (VOMC), and the Emory
      COVID-19 Outpatient Remote Monitoring Registry (E-CORMR). Initial analysis of the management
      system, particularly in risk tier assignment, has shown that assigning risk tiers early can
      help to identify patients at risk for clinical deterioration. The researchers have also
      demonstrated symptom profiles and durations of the "typical" outpatient disease course. The
      E-CORMR was used to create a dashboard for improved management of these frequently complex
      patients. It was determined after its creation that it could also be used for research
      purposes to store data collected from physiologic parameters.

      The goal of this study is to develop algorithms using secondary data abstracted from remote
      monitoring devices that were collected within the E-CORMR. The researchers propose to derive
      robust algorithms through the analysis of that data that identify a potential
      hospitalization. The findings will not only improve the management of patients with known or
      suspected COVID-19 but also provide information that allows early intervention on patients at
      risk of decompensation. This information can then be used by other healthcare systems to care
      for patients more safely at home, thus reducing the impact of COVID-19 on overburdened acute
      care settings and preventing poor outcomes.
    
  