
    
      The study population consisted of two ongoing cohorts: the Nurses' Health Study (NHS) and
      Health Professionals Follow-Up Study (HPFS). The NHS began in 1976 when 121,700 female nurses
      aged 33-55 years and residing in the United States responded to a baseline questionnaire. The
      HPFS began in 1986 when 51,529 male health professionals aged 40-75 years and residing in the
      United States completed a similar baseline questionnaire. Study investigators sent follow-up
      questionnaires biennially to participants to update information on past medical history as
      well as lifestyle factors.

      Follow up was started in 1984 for the NHS and 1986 for the HPFS when diet was measured with
      an expanded food frequency questionnaire (FFQ). Participants in the NHS responded to an ~130
      item semi-quantitative FFQ in 1984, 1986, and then every four years thereafter, while those
      in the HPFS responded to a similar FFQ in 1986 and then every four years thereafter. The FFQ
      collected information on average intake of each food item over the past year. It also
      specified a common serving size for each item. Participants could select from one of nine
      intake frequency choices, ranging from less than once per month to six or more times per day.
      Participants also provided information on current use and dose of multivitamins and use of
      other vitamin supplements.

      For both cohorts, investigators repeatedly collected and updated information on several
      anthropometric and lifestyle factors such as weight, smoking status, alcohol use, coffee
      intake, and physical activity level. Information was also collected on several major risk
      factors for skin disease such as family history of melanoma, number of arm moles, natural
      hair color, sunburn susceptibility as a child or adolescent, number of lifetime blistering
      sunburns, type of tan after repeated sun exposure as a child or adolescent, and cumulative
      ultraviolet flux since baseline.

      Study subjects reported new diagnoses biennially. After obtaining permission from
      participants, their medical and pathological records were acquired. Study physicians blinded
      to questionnaire information reviewed these records to confirm diagnoses

      The study was approved by the institutional review boards of both Brigham and Women's
      Hospital and Harvard T.H Chan School of Public Health.
    
  