
    
      Two types of genetic diseases are associated with abnormal mucociliary clearance. The first
      type results in defective ciliary function and includes primary ciliary dyskinesia (PCD),
      also known as Kartagener Syndrome. The second type results in defective ion transportation
      and includes variant cystic fibrosis (CF) and pseudohypoaldosteronism (PHA). The clinical
      manifestations of these three diseases overlap, and current evaluation procedures are
      inadequate for an accurate and timely diagnosis. A delayed diagnosis, coupled with poorly
      defined disease categories, results in sub-optimal treatment regimens. The purpose of this
      study is to better define the clinical and genetic features of PCD, variant CF, and PHA to
      develop improved diagnostic procedures. The study will also compare prevalence and
      age-related information among the three diseases and classic CF. Outcomes of this study may
      lead to improved clinical care and novel therapeutic approaches for rare genetic disorders of
      the airways.

      Prior to study entry, previous clinical data on all participants will be reviewed to ensure
      that individuals do not have common variants of asthma. In some cases, further clinical
      evaluation (sweat chloride testing, immunodeficiency testing, and a high-resolution computed
      tomography scan) may be recommended. Eligible participants will attend an initial six-hour
      study visit similar to a standard diagnostic evaluation. The participant's medical history
      will be reviewed and a physical examination will include height, weight, and vital sign
      measurements. Respiratory cultures, nasal samples, and blood will be collected. Non-invasive
      techniques will be used to measure oxyhemoglobin saturation levels and airflow; a chest x-ray
      will be required if none has been done in the last six months.

      If a firm diagnosis of PCD or variant CF has not been established after completion of the
      first study visit, the participant may return for additional visits. Salivary and semen
      samples may be collected from some individuals. A sweat chloride test and nasal potential
      difference test may also be performed.
    
  