
    
      This study will examine the language, reasoning, and social skills used by preschool and
      elementary school children when they and their parents attempt to understand, conduct, and
      resolve disputes in everyday family interaction. Families will be given conflict resolution
      training designed to promote listening and speaking skills that result in more accurate
      interpersonal and emotional understanding. The training may lower the emotional volatility of
      family interaction, lower the rate of arguing and fighting between parents and children,
      increase the rate and frequency of verbal negotiation, and encourage the adoption of conflict
      strategies that focus on future-oriented behavior and positive outcomes.

      A total of 324 working class families, representative of the primary ethnic populations in
      Chicago (African American, Caucasian, and Mexican American), will be selected for
      participation. Both parents, one 4- to 6-year-old child, and one 6- to 8-year-old sibling
      will participate. Single parent families will also be included; the parent will be asked to
      nominate a second adult or an additional older sibling in place of the second parent.

      Each family proceeds through three phases. The initial phase allows assessment of conflict
      histories, good times, self-appraisals of psychological well-being, affective and social
      variables that operate within the family, and the family members' ability to discuss and
      negotiate ongoing problems.

      In the second phase, families are randomly assigned to one of three experimental conditions.
      One group is given conflict resolution training and then participates in a series of tasks
      that focus on child-parent narration, negotiation, and negotiation assessments. A second
      group participates in the same tasks without training. A third group undergoes only the
      negotiation assessments. The effectiveness of the training will be evaluated by
      experimentally assessing conflict resolution skills before and after training in both home
      and school contexts.

      The third phase is a six-month follow-up visit, during which parents and children are again
      observed negotiating problems. Psychological well-being and affective feelings are once again
      assessed. The study ends with a debriefing interview for the parents.

      The study consists of 14 study visits. Each member in the family will also have four training
      sessions. Visits are scheduled 3 to 4 times a month, depending on the family's availability.
    
  