
    
      Distracted driving is defined by the National Highway Safety Administration (NHTSA) as any
      activity that could withdraw a person's attention away from the primary task of driving. It
      includes, talking or texting on a cell phone, grooming, eating or drinking, changing radio
      stations, or talking to passengers. Of all these activities text messaging is by far the most
      alarming distraction because it requires visual, manual, and cognitive attention from the
      driver.

      The NHTSA Research Note on distracted driving found that in 2011, 10% percent of fatal
      crashes were reported as distraction-affected crashes. This research also showed that teens
      between 15 to 19 years old are currently the largest group with distracted driving affected
      crashes, with 21% percent of them getting distracted while using their cell phones.

      During the last few years, multiple public awareness campaigns have been launched in attempt
      to reduce this problem. These massive campaigns have included television, radio and internet
      campaigns, posters, billboards and brochures among others. Nevertheless, there are no studies
      assessing the success of these methods.

      The research project will use visual and verbal educational tools to engage this population
      in order to maximize the learning process. The project will include brochures, video
      presentations and power point presentations. The investigators intend to test a potentially
      new and effective way to teach our teenagers about the dangers of distracted driving. The
      project primary goal is to assess if a distracting driving campaign in the emergency
      department is effective in changing the attitudes towards texting while driving. The
      investigator also intends to assess the current knowledge about distracted driving and to
      determine which tool (visual vs. verbal) is most effective to deliver this message.
    
  