
    
      PRIMARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To compare the effects of chemotherapy plus erlotinib (erlotinib hydrochloride) vs.
      chemotherapy alone on progression-free survival (PFS) in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC)
      patients harboring activating endothelial growth factor receptor (EGFR) mutations who
      developed acquired resistance to first-line therapy with erlotinib or gefitinib.

      SECONDARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine the overall survival (OS) and response rate in this patient population.

      II. To assess the safety of erlotinib in combination with chemotherapy in this patient
      population.

      TERTIARY OBJECTIVES:

      I. To determine whether presence of the T790M resistance mutation can be used to predict
      which patients will benefit from the addition of erlotinib to chemotherapy.

      II. To determine if patients with NSCLC harboring activating EGFR mutations who develop
      acquired resistance to EGFR tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs) develop additional
      mutations/genetic alterations on progression.

      III. To determine whether any additional biomarkers (e.g., mesenchymal-epithelial transition
      [MET] amplification, EGFR mutations detected in circulating free deoxyribonucleic acid [DNA])
      predict response to second-line therapy in this patient population.

      IV. To determine progression-free survival (PFS) in patients on the chemotherapy alone arm
      who crossed over to erlotinib after progression as compared to patients on the combination
      chemotherapy arm (erlotinib plus chemotherapy) who switched to chemotherapy of choice
      (without erlotinib) after progression.

      OUTLINE: Patients are randomized to 1 of 2 treatment arms.

      ARM I: Patients receive erlotinib hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21,
      pemetrexed disodium intravenously (IV) and carboplatin IV or cisplatin IV on day 1. Treatment
      repeats every 21 days for 4 courses. Patients then receive maintenance erlotinib
      hydrochloride orally (PO) once daily (QD) on days 1-21 and pemetrexed disodium IV on day 1.
      Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or unacceptable toxicity.

      ARM II: Patients receive pemetrexed disodium and carboplatin or cisplatin as in Arm I.
      Treatment repeats every 21 days for 4 courses. Patients then receive maintenance pemetrexed
      disodium as in Arm I. Courses repeat every 21 days in the absence of disease progression or
      unacceptable toxicity.

      After completion of study treatment, patients are followed until death.
    
  