
    
      1. Introduction Malaria is a threat for pregnant women and their offspring in endemic
      settings (1, 2). Plasmodium falciparum (Pf) can sequester in the placenta during pregnancy,
      resulting in low peripheral parasitemia. As a consequence, malaria diagnostic tests are often
      false negative in pregnant women who actually do have a Pf malaria infection (3, 4).

      Intermittent Preventive Treatment in pregnant women with Sulfadoxine-Pyrimethamine (IPTp-SP)
      is one of the World Health Organization (WHO)'s recommended malaria control strategies in
      sub-Saharan African countries (2). The IPTp-SP strategy surmounts the potential misdiagnosis
      of malaria in pregnant women by treating them all with SP at pre-determined schedules during
      the antenatal care (ANC) visits. The efficacy of IPTp-SP is dose dependent and relies on ANC
      coverage. However, the spread of Plasmodium SP resistant strains now threatens the efficacy
      of the IPTp-SP and can lead to the proliferation of placental resistant parasites in pregnant
      women (5-9).

      As an alternative for IPTp-SP, Intermittent Screening and Treatment in pregnancy (ISTp) may
      be considered as an option (10). ISTp comprises of monthly screening of pregnant women with a
      malaria RDT and treatment of positive cases with an artemisinin-based combination therapy
      (ACT) regardless of the presence of symptoms. The ISTp depends on the performance of the
      diagnostic tests and the use of ultrasensitive RDTs (us-RDTs), which have a higher
      sensitivity than conventional RDTs (11, 12), can avoid false negative that would prevent the
      method from being effective.

      Unlike IPTp-SP, ISTp prevents overuse of antimalarials and, thus, limits drug pressure on
      malaria parasites (10). This advantage could be potentiated by using an ACT that is not yet
      used or should not be used by the national malaria control for other strata of the population
      than pregnant women. Pyronaridine - Artesunate (Pyramax®), a newly approved antimalarial is
      the ideal candidate for this purpose in Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). Pyramax®,
      approved for use in malaria endemic countries since 2015, is used in the field to treat
      malaria in children and adults (13). There is little information on the safety of Pyramax®
      during pregnancy, however, Pyronaridine unintentionally administered successfully treated at
      least 40 cases of malaria in late pregnancy (14) and, a review reported that ACTs, although
      Pyramax® was not included in, are generally very effective and well tolerated during the
      second and third trimesters (15).

      The hypothesis of this study is that the ISTp using Pyramax® for the treatment and performed
      with the us-RDT (ISTp-US-Py) is non inferior than IPTp-SP for the prevention of maternal
      malaria (malaria infection, parasite density), maternal anemia, spontaneous abortions or
      intrauterine death during pregnancy, fetal morbidity (premature birth, low birth weight,
      small for gestational age) and neonatal mortality at childbirth.
    
  