
    
      Alopecia areata (AA) is a major medical problem and is the most prevalent autoimmune disease
      in the US. AA represents the second most common form of hair loss and causes significant
      disfigurement and psychological distress to affected individuals. AA affects more individuals
      than most other autoimmune diseases combined, including lupus erythematosus, type 1 diabetes,
      psoriasis, multiple sclerosis and rheumatoid arthritis. In contrast to these conditions,
      research into the pathogenesis and the development of innovative therapies in AA has lagged
      behind.

      Alopecia areata is a common form of hair loss which reportedly occurs in up to 1.7% of the
      population at some time in their life. Alopecia areata is apparently triggered when the
      individual's own immune system attacks hair follicles on the scalp or body resulting in hair
      loss ranging from single patches on the scalp (patch type alopecia areata) to loss of every
      hair on the scalp and body (alopecia universalis). Currently, there are limited treatment
      options for alopecia areata and unfortunately, the treatments utilized have never been
      rigorously tested in a placebo controlled trial.

      Triamcinolone (Kenalog) is a steroid solution that has been used as a treatment for alopecia
      areata for over 50 years. It is administered via injection into the scalp and appears to have
      some efficacy for patients with mild to moderate alopecia areata. The investigators currently
      do not have objective data on the frequency of occurrence of successful regrowth, the
      duration of response or the incidence of side effects. Intralesional triamcinolone (IL TAC)
      is arguably the most commonly used treatments for AA, especially in patients with less than
      50% hair loss. Despite this, there are no adequately powered, randomized controlled clinical
      trials (RCTs) examining the efficacy, safety, and duration of effect of IL TAC. In addition,
      the dosage or strength used varies among practitioners and the efficacy and safety of
      alternate doses of IL TAC has never been examined in a well designed RCT. Quantitative
      biomarkers for AA are a crucial step toward translational research aimed at clinical trials
      in AA.
    
  