
    
      1. Objective of project: Interferon-a (IFN)-induced depression is a common complication of
           its use in treating patients for hepatitis C (HCV), with reports of up to 44% of
           patients experiencing these depressive side effects. The central hypothesis of the
           proposed research is that polymorphisms in specific serotonergic genes are associated
           with a propensity to develop IFN-induced depression. Further, IFN-induced decreases in
           tryptophan and serotonin levels are putatively related to the emergence of depressive
           symptoms during IFN therapy. The objective of this proposal is to identify predictors of
           IFN-induced depression such that depressive side effects can be better managed and
           treated thus permitting patients to complete a full course of IFN therapy.

        2. Research plan: We plan to test our hypothesis and accomplish the objectives of this
           application by pursuing the following two specific objectives:

             1. to evaluate the role of genetic loci that may contribute to the vulnerability to
                IFN using association analyses. Vulnerability is operationalized as the maximal
                Beck Depression Inventory-II (BDI-II) score, co-varying for pre-treatment BDI-II
                scores, and

             2. to identify the effects and time course of antiviral therapy on potential
                biomarkers of IFN-induced depression, including tryptophan, 5-HT, and cortisol
                levels. Changes in biochemical levels will be compared to depressive symptomology
                and genetic vulnerability.

        3. Methodology: Patients will be asked to participate in a prospective study in which they
           will be monitored during the course of IFN therapy for symptoms of depression and for
           biochemical changes measured in their blood. 120 HCV patients initiating IFN therapy
           will be recruited (3/month for 40 months) from the Portland VA and the Long Beach VA
           Medical Centers. Following baseline assessments, subjects will be followed every 2 weeks
           for a period of 4 months. The development of major depression, depressive symptoms, and
           related IFN-induced side effects will be monitored using rating scales. For genetic and
           biochemical measures, blood samples will be collected prior to and during IFN therapy.
           Patients will be tested for certain genetic polymorphisms.

           Analyses. Using linear regression, genotype will be the independent variable, and
           co-varying for baseline BDI-II score, the maximal BDI-II score will be examined as a
           dependent variable. An ANOVA for repeated measures will be performed to determine the
           effects of IFN therapy on tryptophan, 5-HT, and cortisol levels. In addition, the
           relationship between interferon induced MDD and certain polymorphisms will be examined.

        4. Findings, results or conclusions reached to date: In preliminary studies we found that
           33% of HCV patients on IFN therapy developed major depressive disorder during the course
           of treatment. In addition, preliminary pilot results suggest that the 5-HT transporter
           polymorphism short allele and the "C" allele for the tryptophan hydroxylase polymorphism
           may increase vulnerability to IFN-induced depression.

        5. Clinical relevance: There are currently no known, reliable predictors of IFN-induced
           depression. The chronic disease of HCV infection collectively affects approximately 4
           million Americans and 200 million people worldwide. IFN is the only clinically approved
           medication whose long-term use can reduce the risk of a fatal outcome and even be
           curative in some individuals. However, side effects associated with IFN therapy
           represent a major obstacle to adequate treatment for patients with HCV, often resulting
           in the discontinuation IFN therapy.
    
  