
    
      RATIONALE Globally, over half of HIV-infected adults are women, and in the United States, 25%
      of all HIV/AIDS cases occur in women. Women often lack control over many available prevention
      measures, underscoring a critical need to enhance HIV prevention options for women.
      Pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) is an HIV prevention strategy in which antiretroviral (ARV)
      drugs are used prior to potential HIV exposure to reduce the likelihood of infection. This
      strategy, which usually contains the drug tenofovir disoproxil fumarate (TDF), has recently
      shown promise, but efficacy data suggest room for improvement, particularly for women, in
      whom these data are conflicting. This study aims to prospectively examine ARV pharmacology
      and mucosal immunology in order to evaluate a novel PrEP strategy in women - blockade of HIV
      entry from its target cells at the mucosal surface using the CCR5 receptor antagonist
      maraviroc (MVC). These actions of CCR5 receptor antagonism, if validated, could lead to
      reduced HIV acquisition risk at more favorable dosing strategies than available for current
      PrEP. Knowledge of pharmacological modulation of mucosal immunity and HIV acquisition risk is
      fundamental to understanding, improving, and designing new PrEP strategies.

      DESIGN This is a prospective, observational cohort study with an intensive pharmacokinetic
      component conducted in HIV-negative healthy women. Genital tract and whole blood samples will
      be collected before, during, and after treatment with 7 days of oral MVC, dosed at 300mg
      twice daily (standard) or 300mg daily (reduced) compared with no treatment (control). Genital
      tract and plasma MVC concentration will be measured using intensive pharmacokinetic sampling
      to generate concentration-time profiles. Peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMC) and
      endocervical cells harvested from whole blood and cervicovaginal lavage respectively will be
      analyzed for CCR5 receptor occupancy, the number of CCR5-expressing HIV target cells, and
      level of T cell activation.

      DURATION 21 days after the first visit of the last participants. Enrollment is expected to
      take 12 months.

      SAMPLE SIZE 30 subjects (10 subjects per study group)

      POPULATION HIV-negative healthy women, age 18 years or older, with normal menses.
    
  