
    
      The World Health Organization and the United Nations Programme on HIV/AIDS recommend
      voluntary adult medical male circumcision as an intervention against HIV in Africa since 2007
      and has estimated that achieving 80% male circumcision coverage would have a major public
      health impact. Despite evidence of its effectiveness, feasibility, cost-effectiveness and
      acceptability, its roll-out in Eastern and Southern Africa, the region where HIV prevalence
      is highest in the world, remains slow. Developing and testing innovative strategies to
      accelerate voluntary adult medical male circumcision roll-out is thus necessary. As a target
      community of this prevention method, Orange Farm (Gauteng Province) is a prime setting to
      conduct operational research. The team presenting this project conducted the first voluntary
      adult medical male circumcision randomized trial (ANRS-1265), successfully led the ANRS-12126
      voluntary adult medical male circumcision roll-out, and has just completed the ANRS-12285
      study on voluntary adult medical male circumcision and HIV incidence. Due to the roll-out,
      male circumcision prevalence increased from 12% in 2008 to 53% in 2011 in the township, but
      to date this prevalence has remained stagnant.

      The main objective of this study is to reach 80% circumcised men in randomized clusters of
      Orange Farm (Gauteng Province), a township where voluntary adult medical male circumcision
      roll-out is ongoing since 2007.

      Existing communication strategies will be revised and supplemented by personalised individual
      discussions to increase motivation for voluntary adult medical male circumcision and
      translate it into actual uptake.

      The project consists of: 1) A preparatory phase to establish collaborations and prepare the
      communication activities, 2) a survey phase during which a) a mass communication campaign
      will be launched and b) 300 uncircumcised men selected from randomized clusters of Orange
      Farm will be recruited and undergo a baseline assessment including voluntary adult medical
      male circumcision general counselling, and 3) a follow-up phase during which repeated
      motivational interviews will be conducted to address their individual reasons for not being
      circumcised. Financial incentive will also be tested in a randomized trial.

      Willing men will be referred to the free local voluntary adult medical male circumcision
      clinic and asked to attend an interview on the reasons that motivated them to become
      circumcised. At the end of the study, male circumcision prevalence among participants will be
      calculated. Factors associated with voluntary adult medical male circumcision uptake will be
      studied.

      The survey phase will include a total of 600 uncircumcised and circumcised adult men. Among
      them, an expected 200 uncircumcised men will be included in the follow-up phase.

      Participants will receive a financial compensation for their participation.

      The study will last about 4 months.
    
  