
    
      Soft tissue injury following an open fracture is a significant problem following surgical
      treatment of traumatic skeletal injuries. The soft tissue injury results from a combination
      of the initiating trauma and additional tissue injury during surgery. Current treatment
      includes open reduction and internal fixation versus external fixation, irrigation and
      debridement following admission, decreased activity (non weight bearing status on the injured
      extremity), maintaining the patient as an inpatient in the hospital, repeated irrigation and
      debridements (36-72 hours following the initial trauma) with concomitant wound culturing
      until which time it is determined that either delayed primary closure, or skin grafting
      with/without flap coverage should be attempted.

      All patients in the study will be treated with the appropriate empiric antibiotic regimen
      until wound culture results justify modification for antibiotic sensitivity/resistance
      reasons. In general, barring patient allergy, the empiric antibiotic regimen will adhere to
      the Gustilo and Anderson classification as follows:

      Grade I : Ancef Grade II : Ancef and Gentamicin or Zosyn Grade III : Ancef, Gentamicin or
      Zosyn, and add a Penicillin for grade IIIB open fractures.

      All wounds will be assessed initially at admission following the Gustilo and Anderson
      classification for open fractures. Subsequent wound assessments in the operating room will be
      graded according to the following descriptive scale:

      Type A wound: Abundant granulation tissue, ready for closure. Type B Wound: Granulation
      tissue present but inadequate for closure, Wound is clinically clean appearing. Type C Wound:
      No granulation tissue, no gross purulence. Type D Wound: Gross purulence/infected wound, no
      granulation tissue.

      The outcome variables consist of the intraoperative and postoperative adverse device effects
      recorded in the medical record and on the study data collection form, time to wound closure,
      intraoperative and postoperative complications recorded in medical record and on the study
      data collection form. Clinical photographs of the wounds will be taken with a digital camera
      at the time of admission to the study, and during each subsequent trip to the operating room
      (every 48-72 hours). We will also record the injury severity score for all multiple trauma
      patients recorded at the time of injury in the medical record and on the study data
      collection form, and soft tissue score according to Gustillo and Anderson for open injuries
      in the medical record and on the study data collection form. Baseline serum albumin and total
      lymphocyte counts will be taken on admission to evaluate baseline nutritional and immunologic
      status at the time of injury. All patients in the Intensive Care Units will have daily
      weights, fluid balances, and nutritional intake documented. Resuscitation data will also be
      recorded from the trauma room, including fluids, blood, and base deficit. The effects will be
      measured by clinical examination and will be augmented with culture data for any wounds that
      require surgical intervention.

      Patients who have an open fracture and who give informed consent to enter the study will be
      randomized into two groups. Group A will be patients treated with a return to the operating
      room approximately 48 hours following the initial trauma, and approximately every 48 hours
      thereafter, for irrigation and debridement and concomitant wound cultures (qualitative and
      quantitative) until which time the wound is judged by the surgeon to be ready for either
      delayed primary closure or flap/skin graft coverage. Group B will be patients treated with a
      VAC negative pressure device following the initial surgical irrigation and debridement. Group
      B patients will return to the operating room approximately 48 hours following the initial
      irrigation and debridement for VAC removal, wound cultures (qualitative and quantitative),
      repeat irrigation and debridement, and wound evaluation by the surgeon for possible delayed
      closure versus reapplication of the VAC device. Group B patients will also be returned to the
      operating room approximately every 48 hours thereafter for irrigation and debridement and
      concomitant wound cultures (qualitative and quantitative) until the wound is judged ready for
      coverage or closure by the surgeon.
    
  