
    
      The study goal is to improve music and speech perception for cochlear implant users. The
      relevant health outcome is their quality of life. This proposal focuses on how well cochlear
      implant users can learn to use temporal fine structure if provided as a clear and consistent
      cue for music or voice pitch. Historically, cochlear implants have discarded temporal fine
      structure and have only transmitted timing information of relatively slow envelope
      fluctuations. Attempts have been made to restore temporal fine structure into cochlear
      implant stimulation, but it is unclear whether previous attempts were limited by
      implementation, lack of experience, or inherently by physiology. The proposed approach is
      unique in that it examines the perceptual and physiological plasticity that occurs when
      temporal fine structure is restored. Proposed research is organized into two aims, which
      examine the relative salience of stimulation place and rate for providing a sense of pitch
      (Aim 1) and the salience of dynamic-rate stimulation compared to conventional methods (Aim
      2). Both aims combine perceptual learning, computer-controlled electrode psychophysics,
      electrophysiology, and computational neural modeling to characterize the plasticity of pitch
      perception in cochlear implant users.

      Aim 1 examines the perceptual and physiological plasticity associated with place and rate of
      cochlear implant stimulation. Cochlear implant users hear an increasing pitch associated with
      increasing stimulation rate, but this effect is difficult to measure above 300 Hz. Most
      studies of psychophysical sensitivity to cochlear implant stimulation rate have not
      considered perceptual learning. Preliminary results show that the sense of pitch provided by
      stimulation rate improves with training. The proposed research examines perceptual
      sensitivity and physiological encoding throughout a crossover training study with training
      provided for pitch based on place and rate of stimulation. The primary hypothesis tested is
      that cochlear implant users have a latent ability to hear pitch associated with stimulation
      rate, but they require training to learn how to use this new information.

      Aim 2 is to determine whether dynamic-rate stimulation provides better sensitivity and better
      physiological encoding of fundamental frequency compared to conventional stimulation methods
      based on amplitude modulation of constant-rate stimulation. In normal physiology,
      auditory-nerve activity phase locks to the temporal fine structure of sound. Since cochlear
      implants typically discard this information, it is unknown how well cochlear implant users
      can learn to use it if provided. Aim 2 focuses on the comparison between dynamic-rate
      stimulation in which stimulation rate is dynamically adjusted to convey temporal fine
      structure compared to conventional methods based on amplitude modulation of constant-rate
      stimulation. The primary hypothesis is that dynamic-rate stimulation provides better pitch
      sensitivity and better physiological encoding compared to amplitude modulation of
      constant-rate stimulation.
    
  